CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
Dear Sir/Madam,

We thank you for your interest in the Gas Analytical Solution from ADAGE AUTOMATION . In reference to
the same , please find enclosed our quotation for Design & Engineering, Manufacturing
and Supply of analyzer system as per your requirement.

ADAGE QUOTE REF:
Q25W10188
DATED : 23.10.2025
BID TYPE : Tender
PROJECT TITLE:
Supply of Pour point analyser for Lobs unit at HPCL Mumbai
INQUIRY DETAILS:
GEM tender No : GEM/2025/B/6755428
CUSTOMER:

Kind Attention : Mr Prasun Sarkar
HPCL Mumbai

END USER:

HPCL Mumbai

THE SUMMARY OF SYSTEM AS PER BELOW SECTIONS:
SECTION-1: Summary Of Prices
SECTION-2: Technical Literature
SECTION-3: Scope Matrix

Kindly review and do let us know if you have any queries

Kind Regards

Mr Tejas Rivonkar
ADAGE AUTOMATION PVT LIMITED
Mob: +91 9284270984
tejas@adage-automation.com

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
Introduction to ADAGE AUTOMATION – Leading Provider of Gas Analytical Solutions.

In reference to your requirement for Gas Analytical Solutions, we would like to take this opportunity to
briefly introduce our organization.

ADAGE AUTOMATION is a global leader in providing Continuous Gas Analytical Systems and Solutions.
Our expertise spans across applications in Process Monitoring, Emission Monitoring, and Safety for
various industrial sectors including Oil & Gas, Steel, Cement, Power, Fertilizers, and Chemicals.
We hold a leadership position in India in terms of business volume and infrastructure. Our strong presence
includes:
•
16 offices across India
•
Three overseas subsidiaries in New Jersey (USA), Abu Dhabi (UAE), and Jubail (Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia)
•
A team of over 300 professionals, including 200+ specialist engineers
•
A state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Goa, which is currently the world’s largest Gas
Analytical Systems Integration (SI) facility

To date, we have successfully installed over 5,000 Analyzer Systems both in India and across the globe.
We would be delighted to explore how ADAGE can support your gas analytics needs with our proven
capabilities, global footprint, and commitment to innovation and quality.
Looking forward to the opportunity to collaborate.

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206

SECTION 1: SUMMARY OF PRICES

Item
Qty
Description
Unit Price
Total Price
1
1
Supply of Pour point Analyser
Quoted
Quoted
2
1
Supervision of installation & Commissioning charges
Inclusive
Inclusive
3
1
5 Years PWCAMC Charges
Inclusive
Inclusive

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
SECTION 2: TECHNICAL LITERATURE

1
Tag No : 056-AT-0701
Process condition at sample inlet:
-
Temperature: 55/60/265 °C (NOR/MAX/DESIGN)
-
Pressure: 7/12.9/16.7/25.8 kg/cm2g (MIN/NOR/MAX/DESIGN)

Process condition at Sample return: Shall be provided Later

Fastloop return : To process (By HPCL)
Service: Measure Pour Point of Lube Product

As per MR
Requirement
1.1
Pour point Analyser
Test Method: ASTM D-97
Make: Icon Scientific
Hazardous Area: Analyzer Suitable for Zone 1 IIB+H2 T4
Range: -30 to 3 °C
Power Supply: 110VAC, 50 Hz UPS, 500 VA
IP rating: IP66
Analyzer mounting Location: Inside existing analyser shelter
Analyser Ambient temperature: +5 to 40 °C
With 17” Armored glass touch screen
Sample Consumption:20 LPH

Analyser Output:
-
4-20Ma analog output for pour point
-
MODBUS RTU /OPC over RS485 or Ethernet TCP/IP.
-
Digital outputs

Utility Requirement:
-
110VAC 50Hz UPS power supply
-
415/230 VAC 50Hz Non UPS power supply
-
Cooling water
Note:
-
Adage shall provide serial output till communication JB at existing
shelter, further distribution shall be taken care by HPCL as
confirmed in Prebid query.

1 No
Quoted
1.1

Sample Probe
-
Online retractable type probe, Make: Lotus
-
1.5” 300# RF Flange

1 No

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
1.2
Sample transportation tube:
-
Sample supply and return pipe / line till SHS mounted outside
existing analyser shelter in BPCL scope of supply as confirmed in
Prebid query.

By BPCL
1.21
Internal tubbing (1/2’’ SS316) within SHS shall be in Adage scope of
supply
25 meters
1.3
Secondary Sample handling system:
-
Secondary SHS: Mounted Outside existing analyser shelter inside
SS316 enclosure.
-
Shall be as per the scheme attached.
-
Validation tank: 20 Liter capacity
-
Analyzer shall be calibrated/validated using process sample.
-
Heat Exchanger
-
Chiller unit

Only below Accessories shall be supplied inside existing analyser
shelter by Adage
-
PDB, LM6
-
With ASJB, DSJB, CSJB
-
Headers

Remarks:
-
All Electrical Components shall be ATEX/CCOE Certified.
-
All makes shall be as per BPCL approved Vendor List
-
Fastlloop pump skid is not required and shall be used
existing as confirmed in Prebid query.

1 No
Quoted
1.4
With 200 Liter recovery tank with Redundant Sample recovery pump
with other accessories
1 No
Quoted
1.5
24 hours repeatability test certificate from OEM
1 No
Quoted
1.6
8 hours repeatability test certificate from Adage
1 No
Quoted
1.7
Project Documentation charges
1 No
Quoted
1.8
FAT at Adage factory
1 No
Quoted

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
1.9
Packing and forwarding charges
1 No
Quoted
1.10
Transportation up to Site
1 No
Quoted
1.11
Startup & Commissioning spares
1 No
Quoted
1.12
Consumable spares for 1 year operation from date of SAT
Not applicable, since Analyser shall be calibrated/validated using process
sample, hence No calibration cylinders are required.

Not Quoted
1.13
Additional spares
RS-485 to USB Converter (MOXA make)
RS-485 to HART Converter
1 Set
Quoted
2
Supervision of Installation and Commissioning charges
1 No
Quoted
2.1
SAT
1 No
Quoted
2.2
Training at Sites
For 3 working days

1 No
Quoted
3
PWCAMC charges for 5 years

1 Lot
Quoted

Sr No
Instrument Type / Item
3 - Phase (415 V AC) Non-UPS
power Supply in Watt Per Set
115V AC UPS Power
Supply in Watt Per Set (For
Analysers)
Instrument Air(4-5bar)
Consumption
Cooling Water
Remarks
1
Pour Point Analyzer
3300
500
Required
Required
For 3 Phase: Sample Recovery + lights + Chiller unit
3300
500
1.2
1.2
3960
600
Utility & Power Consumption List
Total Power
Safety Factor 20 %
Total Power Consumption
Page 1 of 1

Government of India
Ministry of Commerce & Industry
Petroleum & Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO)
5th Floor, A-Block, CGO Complex, Seminary Hills,
Nagpur - 440006
E-mail : explosives@explosives.gov.in
Phone/Fax No : 0712 -2510248, Fax-2510577
Approval No : A/P/HQ/GA/104/5510 (P528150)
Dated : 23/08/2022
To,
M/s. ICON Scientific Ltd.,
Unit 6, The Industrial Quarter, Bath Business Park, ,Peasdown St John
BA2 8SF
UK
Sub :
Approval of Flame Proof Type Electrical Equipment under Petroleum Rules 2002- Regarding.
Sir(s),
Please refer to your letter No. OIN1118216 dated 12/08/2022 on the subject.
The following Ex electrical equipment(s) manufactured by you according to IEC 60079-0 : 2011, IEC 60079-1 : 2014-06, standards and covered under Eurofins E&E CML
Limited Test reports mentioned below is/are approved for use in Zone 1 of Gas IIB+H2 hazardous areas coming under the the Petroleum Rules, 2002 administered by this
Organization.
Sr. No
Description
Safety
Protection
Equipment
reference
Number
Test Agency
Drawing no
Name
Certificate No.
Certificate
Date
1
Pour Point Analyser (Without optical
transmitter)
Ex db IIB+H2
T4 Gb
P528150/1
Eurofins E&E CML
Limited
IECEx CML
22.0063X Issue No.
0
26/07/2022
As per test
report
This Approval is granted subject to observance of the following conditions:-
1)The design and construction of the equipment shall be strictly in accordance with description, condition and drawings as mentioned in the Eurofins E&E CML Limited Test Reports
referred to above.
2)The equipment shall be used only with approved type of accessories and associated apparatus.
3)Each equipment shall be marked either by raised lettering cast integrally or by plate attached permanently to the main structure to indicate conspicuously:-
(a) Name of the manufacturer
(b) Name and number by which the equipment is identified.
(c) Number & date of the test report of the Eurofins E&E CML Limited applicable to the equipment.
(d) Equipment reference number of this letter by which use of apparatus is approved.
(e) Protection level.

4) A certificate to the effect that the equipment has been manufactured strictly in accordance with the drawing referred to in the Eurofins E&E CML Limited Test report and is identical with
the one tested and certified at Eurofins E&E CML Limited shall be furnished with each equipment.
5) The customer shall be supplied with a copy of this letter, an extract of the conditions and maintenence schedule, if any, recommended by Eurofins E&E CML Limited in their test reports
and copy of instructions booklet detailing operation & maintenance of the equipment so as to maintain its Flame Proof characterestics.
6) The After sales service and maintanance of subject equipment shall be looked after by your representative Adage Automation Private Limited, L26B, Verna Indl. Estate
Conditions of the Approval:-
The approval for above equipment is subject to validity of IECEx Quality Assessment Report No. GB/CML/QAR21.0010.
This approval also covers the permissible variations as approved under the Eurofins E&E CML Limited test reports referred above. This approval is liable to be cancelled if any of the
conditions of the approval is violated or not complied with . The approval may also be amended or withdrawn at any time, if considered necessary in the interest of safety.
The field performance report from actual users/your customers of the subject equipment may please be collected and furnished to this office for verification and record on annual basis.
The Approval is Valid upto 31/12/2026
Yours faithfully,
(A.B. Tamgadge)
Dy. Chief Controller of Explosives
For Chief Controller of Explosives
Nagpur
Copy to :
1. Jt. Chief Controller of Explosives, West Circle, MUMBAI
2. Adage Automation Private Limited,L26B, Verna Indl. Estate
for Chief Controller of Explosives
Nagpur
(For more information regarding status,fees and other details please visit our website http://peso.gov.in)
This is System Generated document. Signature is not required.

Icon Scientific Limited
t +44 (0) 1225 667050 e info@iconscientific.com w www.iconscientific.com

All icon products are...

Easy to use: with an armoured glass wipe-clean touch-screen
and intuitive multi-lingual graphic user interface.

Certified to global standards: ATEX, IECEx, TIIS, EAC, and
ETL approved to give absolute confidence and peace of mind in
hazardous areas and manufactured under an ISO9001:2015
certified Quality Management System.

Robust and fully explosion proof: no air or inert gas purging
required for safe operation in explosion hazard areas.

Safety assured: with an alarm for internal sample leakage.

Highly efficient: with low sample consumption and a sample
flow monitor.

Flexible: with auto validation or calibration options and
standard Modbus, 4-20mA, and digital contact outputs.

icon scientific Pour Point Analyser Brochure - V05 (Jul-2019)
What does it do?
The icon scientific Pour Point Analyser is used to provide an indicator of the lowest
temperature at which typically a fuel oil may be used. The analyser uses advanced
thermoelectric cooling to provide exceptional results, in most cases without the
need for chilled water.

To improve performance and eliminate condensation, and ice formation, the whole
system is housed in a patented, sealed containment vessel held under vacuum.
The vessel features detection systems to monitor the vacuum and alert you to any
sample leakage. The obtained results are compatible with those of no flow and
pour point test methods such as ASTM D97, D5853, D5949 and D5985.

How does it work?
The low mass measuring cell traps a small amount of the sample that is then
cooled at a controlled rate by the peltier cooler. At pre-set temperature intervals,
the sample is pressure pulsed by a stepper motor driven piston cylinder. Sample
movement is then detected by a differential pressure sensor connected across the
cell. The cooling is continued until the applied differential pressure pulse has been
attenuated sufficiently to indicate that the sample is no longer moving. This
temperature is taken as the no flow point. The old sample is then warmed and
flushed away, and the cycle is repeated.

Why choose the icon scientific
Pour Point Analyser?
Excellent repeatability: with advanced detection algorithms and pulse width
modulated variable rate peltier cooler control, it achieves better repeatability than
the standard test methods.

Best in class cooling performance: with reduced thermal losses thanks to the
low mass measuring cell, patented vacuum insulation system and non-contacting
light source and detector. This provides the highest differential between cooling
water temperature and the lowest measurable pour and no flow points.

Increased measuring cell life: as well as giving improved cooling performance,
vacuum insulation eliminates premature cell failure caused by condensation and
cooling errors due to ice formation.

Cell service exchange plan: to aid planned maintenance and reduce downtime in
the unlikely event of a problem, icon operates a Pour Point cell-service exchange
plan. The cell is sent to icon or their local representative, and a fully-refurbished cell
is delivered by return. This process enables considerable savings on the individual
cost of parts. It can also save you time and money by reducing the risks associated
with carrying out your own cell repairs.

icon scientific Pour Point Analyser Brochure - V05 (Jul-2019)

Sample Requirements
Sample Filtration
Free from non-dissolved water and
filtered to 10 microns.
Sample Inlet Temperature
Maximum 50 °C
Sample Inlet Pressure
1-5 barg
Sample Outlet Pressure
At least 1 bar below the sample inlet
pressure. Maximum 4 barg.
Sample Consumption
Typically 6-30 L/hour
Utility Requirements
Instrument Air
Not Required (standard)

0.2 barg (3 psig) for optional cell
and/or electronics enclosure cooling.
Coolant
1-10 barg, at 40-60 L/hr
Minimum 0.5 bar differential pressure.
Filtered to 100 microns.

Not more than 40°C above the lowest
expected cloud point to be measured.
Power
115-230VAC 50-60Hz, Max 500VA
Installation Requirements
Location
Unit must be located out of direct wind
sun and rain.
Ambient Temperature
+5 to +40 °C
Ambient Humidity
0-95% RH, non-condensing.
Control System
Control System
Based on fan-less industrial PC with
solid state hard drive.
Graphical User Interface (GUI)
17” armoured glass touch-screen. The
GUI is used to program the unit and
display current and historical analyser
results and alarm status.
Language
User-selectable multilingual display.
Certification
Hazardous Area Certification
The Pour Point analyser is Exd
certified to ATEX, IECEx standards,
suitable for zone 1 or zone 2 use in
gas groups IIA, IIB, or IIB+H2, with a
variable T-rating depending upon
application.
It is also ETL listed for the USA and
Canada Class 1, Div 1, groups B,C,D.
IP Ratings
Tested and certified to IP66/IP67
(dust tight and protected from
temporary total immersion in water).

Specification
Measuring Range
-30°C to +30°C
Repeatability
Equal to or better than repeatability
criteria of the relevant test.
Cycle Time
Typically 4-8 minutes.
Inputs/Outputs
Analog Outputs
2 x 4-20mA (active) isolated outputs
provided as standard for pour point
and no-flow results.
Digital (Contact) Inputs
Run / Standby: reads a customer
supplied latching switch to toggle
between run and standby modes.

Remote Cal: reads a customer
supplied momentary switch to
remotely initiate a calibration cycle.

Remote Val: reads a customer
supplied momentary switch to
remotely initiate a validation cycle.
General Fault Alarms
Alarm limits can be configured for
monitored conditions, and set to be
Fatal, Warning, or Inactive. Active
alarms are notified on screen and
stored in the alarm history table.
Digital (Contact) Outputs

Fatal Alarm (NC): this general fault
alarm will cause the analyser to
suspend its operation when triggered.

Warning Alarm (NC): this general
fault alarm is for notification only.

New Result (NO): a 10 second
monostable contact to notify that a
new analyser result is available.

Data Valid (NO): this contact will
indicate that the analyser is running,
and that data is valid. As opposed to
when a calibration or validation is in
progress, or when the analyser is in
standby.

Cal/Val (NO): this contact will indicate
that the analyser is in calibration or
validation mode.

Spill Alarm (NC): this alarm contact
will trigger if a leak is detected in the
analyser enclosure.

All contact ratings are
24VDC 0.5A, 230VAC 1A
Analog Inputs
(optional)
The analyser can optionally read up to
four 0-10V or 4-20mA active signals.
These inputs may be displayed, and
the values can each have an alarm
level associated with them.
Digital (Contact) Inputs
(optional)
The analyser can optionally monitor
up to four volt-free external contacts.
These contacts may be included in
the alarm table.
Communications
Modbus RTU or OPC over RS485 or
Ethernet (TCP/IP), with optional fiber
optics. Optional OPC server software.

icon scientific Pour Point Analyser Brochure - V05 (Jul-2019)
Note: icon scientific products are subject to a program of continuous development and improvement and specifications are liable to change without notice.
Please check that you have the latest information available before relying on any specification.

Dimensions & Weights

Notes:
All dimensions in mm
Unpacked weight approx. 415kg
Packed weight approx. 522kg

PR Title
LOUP POUR POINT ANALYSER REPLACEMENT
Basis
of
Evaluation
Over All
Types
of
bid
Submission
Quantity wise
Delivery Period
Material shall be delivered at Mumbai Refinery warehouse along with packing
slip and relevant documents. The delivery period for the material supply shall
be 30 weeks from the date of purchase order placement / Letter of Intent (LOI).
The delivery period for the installation & commissioning shall be 1 month after
the site clearance issued by HPCL Engineer-In-Charge.
Price Reduction
In case of delayed delivery, prices will be reduced @1/2% of the total basic
order value for every week of delay or part thereof subject to a maximum of @5%
of the total basic order value.
NOTE:
a. Price Reduction shall be applicable only on the basic cost and on Full
complete week (s) and for fractional days Price reduction shall be applicable
on pro-rata, if any.
b. Initially Price Reduction shall be applicable for total basic order value
and final Price Reduction settlement to be on undelivered portion in the
contractual delivery period. If the Tender is of Rate Contract type, PRC will
be levied on the Basic Invoice Value against respective RPO’s under the
contract, and not on the total contractual value.
Payment Terms
a. The following payment terms shall be applicable:
i. 75% of the bill amount duly recommended by user on receipt of materials /
docs. at HPCL shall be paid within 7 days of receipt of bill.
ii. Balance 25% to be paid after verification/ certification within 15 days of
receipt of bill. However, the final bill payment will not exceed 30 days.
b. HPCL has taken the initiative to expedite the payment to vendors through e-
payment. Hence confirm that you have filled the HPCL bank mandate for e-payment.
c. Payment against invoice shall be made on receipt of equipment/materials at
site against submission of following documents along with your Bill/Invoice: -
i. Delivery Challan / Lorry Receipt.
ii. Manufacturer’s Test Certificate
iii. Inspection/Clearance report
iv. Manufacturer’s Guarantee Certificate
v. Performance Bank Guarantee for 10% Basic Order Value
vi. Any other document specified in the Purchase Order.
d. The financial settlement of Vendor’s invoice is liable to be withheld in the
event the Vendor has not complied with submission of drawing data and such
documentation as called for
in the Purchase Order and/or as required otherwise.
e. HPCL will furnish their approved format for bank guarantee/ indemnity bond
for all the advance payments directly to vendor along with FOA/ PO, wherever
applicable.
f. In case of delayed supplies, bills will be paid after recovering the amount
as per price reduction clause of the P.O.
g. All bank guarantees shall be non-revocable and from a bank in India from
the list of banks whose bank guarantees are acceptable to the Corporation (list
enclosed) and as per
HPCL’s proforma. h. PBG shall be valid till expiry of guarantee period. All
other Bank Guarantees shall be valid till contractual completion period, unless
otherwise specified. All bank guarantees shall have a claim period of 1(one)
month after expiry date of bank guarantee.
Retention Money /
PBG
a. The supplies made against this order shall be fully guaranteed against any
manufacturing defects/poor workmanship/inferior quality etc. for a period of
12 months from the date of commissioning or 18 months from the date of supply
whichever is earlier. During this period, you will arrange to repair/replace
any defective parts free of cost or replace complete set if required. Guarantee
Certificate should be submitted along with despatch documents. You will furnish
performance Bank Guarantee in favour of HPCL issued by a bank from the list of
banks whose bank guarantees are acceptable to the Corporation (list enclosed)
for 5% value of the material supplied and valid during the above guarantee

period.
b. Composite PBG valid up to a period of 3 months beyond the expiry of defect
liability period. Demand Draft should be drawn on Scheduled Banks (other than
cooperative banks).
Quantum of Performance Bank Guarantee inclusive of Security Deposit should be
as follows:
- All items (other than CVR items): 5% of PO value
- For CVR items: r 10.0 lakhs or 5% of the order value whichever is lower.
Composite PBG of above value towards Performance Bank Guarantee inclusive of
Security Deposit shall be accepted (in lieu of deduction of retention money of
5 % from each bill); Such composite PBG shall be valid up to a period of 3
months beyond the expiry of defect liability period.
Security Deposit
Clause
Applicable; 2% of Contract Value
No. of Vendors
required
1

1.0 Introduction:
HPCL-Mumbai Refinery (MR) intends to procure one number Online Pour Point Analyser System
for measuring Pour Point of Lube Oil products in LOBS unit of HPCL Mumbai Refinery. The
new Pour Point analyser system shall consist of required analyser, sample handling
system, fast loop system, recovery system, recovery pumps, validation system (including
tank), analyser components like HMI, sensor, detector, and other electronics component
with enclosure & analyser as per Hazardous Area classification, etc.

2.1 Pre-Qualification Criteria (PQC):
a] Technical criteria: -
Bidder shall be OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) or Indian Subsidiary of OEM or
Authorized dealer. Vendor to submit documentation for the same.

Bidders intending to participate shall fulfil the following Eligibility/Qualification
Criteria to qualify for this work.

1) Bidder must have supplied, installed / commissioned at least one (1) set of Online
ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) Analyser system during last seven (7)
years in Petroleum Refineries / Petrochemical Plants in India or abroad costing not less
than the amount of Rs. 84,96,000/-. (For past PO of similar work outside India, PO value
shall be considered as per foreign exchange rate on the date of publishing tender)

2) The above shall be supported by submission of relevant documents like: Purchase Order
or Work Order copy and completion certificate or commissioning report or minutes of
meeting by customer or consultant of previously executed works as specified in technical
criteria point no.(1).

3) Online Pour Point Analyser system works executed and completed by a bidder as a
Subcontractor shall also be considered for the purpose of meeting the above experience
criteria of PQC, subject to submission of following additional documents in support of
meeting the "Bidder Qualification Criteria".

a. Copy of work order issued by Main Contractor.
b. Copies of completion certificate or commissioning report or minutes of meeting from
the main Contractor and endorsed by End User or Owner or Project Consultant.

4) In case, bidder is an Authorized Indian representative or an Indian Subsidiary of
OEM, the bidder shall submit the following.
- An Authorization certificate from OEM on their letterhead along with the bid as a
proof that the said bidder is authorized representative of OEM and will be supplying the
product manufactured by the said OEM & has existing facilities in India for carrying out
installation and post commissioning annual maintenance service support.

- The certificate shall have the reference of the current tender and an undertaking that
the Online Pour Point Analyser system shall be supplied as per tender specifications and
work shall be completed as per scope of work.

5) All above clauses shall be read in conjunction.
b] Financial Criteria:
1) Average Annual Turnover:
The bidder average annual financial turnover during the last 3 years, ending 31st March
of the previous financial year shall be Rs. 63,72,000/- or higher.

Subsidiaries / Affiliates of Indian or foreign companies which are registered in India
and having manufacturing facilities or establishment towards providing services in India
are allowed to participate in this tender, subject to meeting the local content
provisions as per the MII clause enclosed with the tender. Such entities can participate
either on the basis of their credentials (Technical or Financial) or on the basis of the
credentials (Technical or Financial) of their parent/ affiliate company, as per the PQC
requirements applicable for this tender. If credentials of parent/ affiliate are sought
to be relied upon, then the Indian subsidiary must meet the other PQC, either Technical
or Financial. Moreover the parent/affiliate will also provide suitable Guarantees to
ensure completion of the work in all respects.

2.2. NOTE TO BIDDERS:
2.2.1 Evaluation method: Overall evaluation.

2.2.2 Bid Rejection Criteria:
a) Non-compliance to PQC shall lead to rejection of the bid without technical or
commercial evaluation.
b)Non-compliance to specified ASTM methods shall lead to rejection of the bid.
c) ATEX/IECEx certificate to be submitted by vendor during bid evaluation, however vendor
to submit valid PESO approval before dispatch of material under this PO.
d) In case of non-availability of PESO certification vendor has to provide PESO
application document with bids or during technical review. This application shall be
based on above submitted ATEX/IECEx certificate.
e) Confirmation to below clauses under 2.2.3

2.2.3
Following PESO certificate related clauses shall be confirmed mandatorily:
a) Dispatch clearance will be provided only after submission of valid PESO certificate.
b) Delay in obtaining the PESO certificate by vendor shall not be considered for delivery
extension.
c) Any payment under this PO can be done after obtaining PESO certificate.
d) HPCL reserves the right to cancel the PO in case PESO not submitted within Contractual
delivery date.
e) In case on PO cancellation due to non-availability of PESO certificate/application,
HPCL shall not be liable for claim or expense incurred by vendor.
f) Security Deposit of 2% of PO value(including GST) shall be submitted as per HPCL GTC.
In case of cancellation of PO due to non-submission of PESO certificate, HPCL reserves
the right to withhold this SD amount or revoke the SD BG.

3.0 General Requirement:

3.1 This specification together with the data sheet and all other documents covers the
minimum requirements & scope of work for the complete design, engineering, materials
selection,
manufacturing,
nameplate
marking,
inspection,
testing,
shipment,
installation, site testing, commissioning, training, warranty and comprehensive annual
maintenance of the complete online Pour Point analyser system.

3.2 The bidder is responsible for the selection of proper Pour Point Analyser along-
with the complete sample handling / conditioning system to analyze the components of
interest within the stated performance requirements and to meet the specification in
totality. If at any stage, till the completion of the order, the offered Pour Point
Analyser System and accessories are found unsuitable for the specified operating and
design conditions, the bidder shall replace the same with a suitable model no. meeting
the specifications without any schedule / cost implication. Bidder shall provide all
hardware and software, as necessary, to meet the functional requirements specified in
the tender specification.

3.3 Offer must be complete in all respect complying fully with the tender requirements
without exception. No price change whatsoever shall be allowed to the bidder after
submission of bid even if it results from any technical clarification. Alternate quote
/ price shall not be furnished.

3.4 Pour Point Analyser shall be rugged and of proven design suitable for continuous
operation in industrial environments. Instrument shall be field proven. Technique of
measurement used shall be interference free. It shall be immune to other impurities in
the sample stream.

3.5 The offered Pour Point Analyser system shall be suitable for use in the hazardous
area classification as indicated in the tender.

3.6 Refrigerant used in sample cooler shall be eco-friendly. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
refrigerants are not accepted.

3.7 Sample handling system shall be mounted inside separate SS316 cabinet.

3.8 The analyser field cabinet (if any) and Sample Handling system cabinet shall be
installed in the field area.

3.9 Offered Pour Point analyser system shall have Minimum Detection Limit (MDL)
considering the sampling system, sensor, electronics and detector integrity in
measurement as per the performance specified in the tender specification. For the given
measuring range, at any condition MDL shall not exceed specified limit.

3.10 Bidder offered Pour Point Analyser system shall clearly measure the pour point of
the process sample. All the indicated impurities may present in the process due to the
plant complexity / configuration and operation.

3.11 Bidder offered analyser system shall have separate measuring / Analysis &
electronics compartments. Bidder offer with combined electronics & measuring / Analysis
compartment shall not be acceptable.

3.12 Placement of internal component inside measuring compartment, electronics
compartment, and other accessories mounted inside the analyser cabinet shall be designed
& mounted in such a way that, there shall be sufficient space for maintenance activities.
Individual component shall be accessible for maintenance without having the need to
remove any other component.

3.13 Vendor to note that offered Pour Point analyser system shall be able to measure
fresh process sample during each cycle and accordingly Analyser, sample handling with
fast loop system shall be designed.

3.14 All the components of sample handling system shall be designed and placed inside
SS316 enclosure in such that, each & every component, fitting shall be easily accessible
for maintenance purpose.

3.15 Specific arrangement shall be provided to ensure that all the moisture is removed
from the sample. Vendor shall provide cooler, moisture separator with automatic drain
valve etc suitable for the application. In case of cooler failure, sample to the analyser
shall be cut-off.

3.16 Sample recovery system with 200 Liters tank of SS316 with Magnetic level Gauge with
switches (Low, Low Low and High, High High contacts) shall be supplied with recovery
pumps in redundant configuration (i.e. 1:1 configuration) with motor protection, control
and power distribution. Accordingly, a standby pump shall be available at all times.

3.17 In case of Sample recovery level high high, sample pump shall trip to avoid overflow
of recovery tank. Provision of implementing this logic shall be available.

3.18 Vibration pad / skid protection from vibration, noise / protection hood for pump
etc. shall be considered.

3.19 All motors shall be protected against single phasing and thermal overload. Motors
shall be designed for direct on-line starting.

3.20 The minimum MOC of Sample handling system pipe / tube shall be SS316.

3.21 Pour Point analyser sample inlet rotameter shall be provided with a flow switch to
provide low flow alarm in sample line.

3.22 All rotameter shall be metallic tube rotameter with indicating scale.

3.23 Air Filter shall be with 5 Micron Sintered bronze. AFR shall be provided with outlet
pressure gauge with SS304 casing, Range 0-10 Kg/cm2g. The AFR shall be with SS Spindle
& drain.

3.24 All the internal or external equipment / instruments /components/ tubing shall have
the clear identification marks and same shall be engraved properly.

3.25 All the fittings /tubes of sample handling system should be as per HPCL vendor
list.

3.26 Pumps shall have typical Motor Control circuit providing of indications like ON,
OFF, STOP, TRIP, AUTO/MANUAL, etc.

NA for Quoted system

3.27 Fast loop pumps, all junction boxes and cable glands required for main incoming
power supply, power distribution, signal junction boxes, safety equipment items, items
required to be kept "power on" even on pressurization failure shall be certified
flameproof (Exd). Intrinsic safe equipment shall not be acceptable.

3.28 Vendor to segregate the junction boxes as per analogue signal, main power incomer
& power distribution with isolation switches, control signals and communication signals.
Mixing of the various signals in one junction box shall not be acceptable.

3.29 Cross reference ferruling philosophy shall be followed for all the wiring.

3.30 The offered analyser shall have HMI with inbuilt keypad / touch screen for
programming & integral display for displaying analyzed process parameters.

3.31 Offered Analyser shall have capacity to store min 30 days historian data. It shall
be possible to access historical data from the Analyser itself.

3.32 Vendor to provide complete data to HPCL for serial communication with, HPCL host
system (DCS), alarm output and also isolated analogue 4-20 mA to the HPCL's host system
i.e. DCS. Analog Outputs: 2 x 4-20mA (active) isolated outputs provided as standard for
pour point and no-flow results.

3.33 Offered analyser system shall work satisfactorily with instrument air of max
pressure 4.5 kg/cm2g.

3.34 Vendor to consider comprehensive annual maintenance contract of the offered analyser
system and to provide the year-wise rate for five years maintenance contract.

4.0 Logistic Support: The offered analyser system shall be equipped with latest
technology and shall have minimum 10 years of spares and service support post
commissioning.

5.0 Scope of Work:

5.1 Inclusion:

5.1.1 Complete analyser system design, engineering, materials selection, manufacturing,
nameplate marking, inspection, testing (FAT), shipment, installation, commissioning,
site testing (SAT), documentation, training and maintenance.

5.1.2 Supply of complete analyser system with sample probe, sample line/tube, sample
pumps, sample handling system, analyser, recovery system with pumps, etc.

5.1.3 Transportation of all the supplied instruments/ equipment from HPCL entry point
to designated storage area / site.

5.1.2 Adage Remark: Sample line/tube upto secondary SHS shall be provided by HPCL,
internal tubbing shall be in Adage scope of supply as per prebid query confirmation from HPCL
Fastloop pump skid is not required as per prebid query confirmation.
Adage remark: Adage shall provide RS 485 serial output till communication JB at Shelter end, further distribution shall be taken
care by HPCL

5.1.4 Supervision of Installation of supplied complete analyser system.

5.1.5 For installation of analyser system required civil structural support / platform
at site shall be made available by HPCL as per vendor’s drawing.

5.1.6 All the necessary tubing/piping/cable required for the analyser system shall be
supplied & installed by vendor.

5.1.7 HPCL shall provide 110VAC UPS power supply and 230VAC non-UPS supply at single
point near the analyser and further distribution shall be carried out by vendor. Vendor
to indicate the power consumption in details along with the offer.

5.1.8 Earthing cable laying & termination for the analyser system. However, earth pit
shall be provided by HPCL. Vendor to indicate the detail earthing requirement in the
offer.

5.1.9 Supply of all the tools tackles required for installation & commissioning of the
supplied analyser system. Latop for modbus communication and other testing shall included
in the offer.

5.1.10 Site configuration if required, validation & commissioning of the system.

5.1.11 Supply of any consumables etc shall be in vendor’s scope during commissioning and
warranty period.

5.1.12 SAT and site training of the supplied analyser system and training at vendor’s
work place (10 man days).

5.1.13 Documentation of analyser system as per HPCL requirement.

5.2 Exclusion:
Below are in HPCL scope
5.2.1 Civil jobs in field area to install the analyser system.
5.2.2 Provision / laying of sample inlet/return connection up to the Analyser skid.
5.2.3 Earth Pit & required earth bus bar.
5.2.4 Provision of instrument air line near analyser system.
5.2.5 Supply and cable laying /connection from analyser signal distribution junction box
to control room.
5.2.6 HPCL host system (DCS) configuration.

6.0 Technical Specification:
6.1 Applicable Codes and Standards:

6.1.1 The related standards referred to herein and mentioned below shall be of the latest
editions prior to the date of the HPCL's enquiry: ASME American Society of Mechanical
Engineers 1.20.1 Pipe Threads, General Purpose (Inch) 16.5 Pipe Flanges and Flanged
Fittings 16.20 Metallic Gaskets for Pipe Flanges- Ring Joint, Spiral wound and Jacketed
B 31.3 Process Piping API American Petroleum Institute RP 551 Process Measurement
Instrumentation RP 552 Transmission Systems RP 554 Process Control Systems RP 555 Process
Analysers ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials G93 Standard Practice for
cleaning methods and cleanliness levels for material and equipment used in oxygen-
enriched environments EN European Standards EN 10204 Inspection Documents for Metallic
Products IS/IEC Indian Standards/ International Electro Technical Commission IS/IEC
5.1.6 Adage Remark: Sample line/tube/Pipe upto secondary SHS shall be provided by HPCL,
internal tubbing shall be in Adage scope of supply as per prebid query confirmation from HPCL
5.1.11 Adage Remark: Consumables are not required, as Process sample shall be used for validation/calibration of analyser.

60079 Electrical Apparatus for Explosives Gas Atmosphere IS/IEC 60529 Degree of
Protection Provided by Enclosures. (IP Code) IEC 61000-4 Electromagnetic Compatibility
for Industrial Process Measurement and Control Equipment IEC-61285 Industrial Process
Control - Safety of Analyser Houses NFPA 496 National Fire Protection Associations
6.1.2 In the event of any conflict between this standard specification, job specification
/ datasheets, statutory regulations, related standards, codes etc., the following order
of priority shall govern:
a. Statutory Regulations
b. Job Specification / Data Sheets
c. Standard Specification
d. Codes and Standards

6.2 Hazardous Area Classification: For Pour Point Analyser system hazardous area
classification shall be Zone 1, Gas Group IIA/IIB+H2 or IIC, Temp Classification T4. All
other components of the system shall be certified to Zone 1, Gas Group IIA/IIB+H2 or
IIC, Temp Classification T4. Approved certification shall be provided for each instrument
by appropriate authority in the manufacturer country (i.e. ATEX, IECEx, PTB for Germany,
BASEEFA for England, LCI for France, CESI for Italy, CSA for Canada, JIS for Japan, FM
for U.S.A etc.) Statutory approvals from Chief Controller of Explosives Nagpur (CCOE)
or Director General of Mines Safety (DGMS) in India, along with Petroleum Explosive
Safety organization (PESO) shall be mandatory for all items, each and every component
supplied along with the system.

6.3 Analyser Data - Sheet: Refer attached Annexure – 01.

6.4 Design & Construction:

6.4.1 General:

6.4.2 HPCL’s data sheet and specification specifies the requirement of Pour Point
Analyser system and its accessories designed in accordance with API RP 555.

6.4.3 Pour Point value output provided by Analyser shall be compliant to ASTM D-5949
test method or
compliant to ASTM D-5950 test method.

6.4.4 Sampling system for the analyser shall be continuous with fast loop return
connected back to the process. The process conditions for the sample take off and return
connection is specified in the datasheet and tender specification.

6.4.5 All items/equipment’s shall be capable of mechanical integrity for withstanding
design pressure and temperature conditions specified in the datasheet. The other items
shall also be designed considering maximum safety and equipment operation.

6.4.6 All items/equipment’s shall be capable for measurement of pour point value for
maximum pressure and temperature process conditions specified in the datasheet.

6.4.7 The design shall ensure that components or any sub-assembly that requires removal
for maintenance shall be removable without any need to disassemble any other component.
Such components include item like analysis cell, switching valves, sample inject valves,
filters, pressure regulators, flow indicators, detectors, plug in circuit cards/
electronic modules and detector cell etc.

6.4.8 All interconnecting wiring shall be color coded/numbered and terminal blocks shall
be clearly identified.

6.4.9 The design of analyser and its accessories shall comply the electromagnetic
compatibility requirements as per IEC-61000-4.

6.4.10 Material of Construction:

6.4.11 Unless otherwise specified, the material of construction of all components wetted
by the sample shall be SS316, as a minimum. Vendor must ensure the compatibility of
material of each component with the process fluid.

6.4.12 Material of all soft parts like diaphragms and o-rings shall be of PTFE. Other
vendor standard materials can also be acceptable provided these are compatible with the
specified process condition.

6.4.13 The material of construction of all non-wetted parts shall be as per
manufacturer's standard. However non-metallic materials for casings, enclosures and
instrument covers shall be avoided.

6.4.14 Power Supply:

6.4.15 Unless indicated otherwise, the analyser including sample handling system shall
operate at 110VAC, 50 Hz power supply.

6.4.16 The analyser performance shall be within the specified limits when the supply
voltage varies by +/- 10% of specified value and supply frequency varies by ±3 Hz of
specified value.

6.4.17 End Connection:

6.4.18 Unless otherwise mentioned, end connection details shall be as below:
a. Threaded end connections shall be to NPT as per ASME B 1.20.1.
b. Flanged end connections shall be as per ASME B 16.5.
c. Grooves of ring type joint flanges shall be octagonal as per ASME B16.20.
d. Flanged face finish shall be as per ANSI B 16.5. The face finish shall be as follows:
125 RH : 125 to 250 micro-inch AARH 63 ARH : 32 to 63 micro-inch AARH

6.4.19 Gaskets, bolts and nuts shall be suitable for the service conditions indicated.

6.4.20 End connection of sizes 1⁄4 inch or below shall be suitably protected against
damage.

6.4.21 All end connections shall be clearly identified by attaching labels or stainless-
steel plate of suitable size.

6.4.22 Enclosure Type:
6.4.23 Analyser electronics enclosures and related accessories shall be suitable for the
electrical area classification indicated in HPCL's data sheets. Unless otherwise
specified, the enclosures shall comply to the following standards: Weatherproof housing
IP-54 to IS/IEC-60529 Flameproof housing Flameproof/Ex (d) as per IS/IEC-60079 Purged
Enclosure NFPA 496 Flameproof and purged equipment shall also be made weatherproof.

6.4.24 In addition to meeting weatherproof requirements, intrinsically safe analysers
shall meet the requirements specified in IS/IEC60079 and shall be certified for the area
classification specified in the HPCL's data sheet.

6.4.25 Analyser where air purge is provided; purge shall be as per NFPA 496 Type X.
Analyser power shall cut off in case of purge failure. Purge failure alarm shall be
provided for HPCL use. Separate local purge bypass switch to be provided.

6.4.26 Separate cable entries shall be available in the analyser/enclosure for power and
signal cable. Unless otherwise specified, following shall apply:
a. Cable entry and terminal size for power cable shall be informed during detail
engineering. Explosion proof junction box with cable glands shall be supplied.
b. Cable entry for Serial cable/signal cables (Signal output) shall be 1/2" NPT (F).
c. Cable entry for multi-pair signal cables (Multiple outputs) shall be 1.5" NPT (F).
d. All type of junction boxes shall be designed for bottom cable entry type only. e.
Screwed type terminal shall be used for cable termination.

6.4.27 All enclosure entries including sample, utilities, cables etc. shall be clearly
identified by attaching label or stainless-steel plate of suitable size.

6.4.28 All the cable and tubing interface between analyser to junction boxes and sample
handling system shall be from side entry only. Bottom /Top entry are not acceptable.
Vendor to provide suitable sizes MCT block for the cable and tube interface separately.

6.4.29 All items including analyser installed within the cabinet shall be suitable for
the maximum possible temperature likely to be attained within the cabinet (i.e., at
maximum ambient temperature with all items fully powered-on within the cabinet) and area
classification specified in the HPCL's data sheet.

6.4.30 All cabling inside the Analyser Rack / Panel shall be done using armored cables
routed in tray / duct / conduit. Segregation shall be maintained between power and signal
cables as per voltage level. All cables shall be tagged at both ends.

6.4.31 Cable trays shall be FRP type. Cable tray standard sizes shall be 50mm, 150mm &
300mm only. Cable tray collar size shall be min 50 mm for trays upto 150 mm and 75 mm
for 200 mm and above. Suitable no of perforation in cable tray shall be considered. Each
individual cable routed through trays must be clamped. The overall clamping shall be
with aluminium clamp instead of tying with cable armour. Nuts/Bolts for cable tray fixing
shall be SS

6.4.32 Analyser Rack / Panel shall be provided with a safety electrical earth to which
all the devices operating at or above 110 V shall be grounded.

6.4.33 A separate isolated Intrinsic Safe (IS) / shield earth shall be provided inside
the Analyser Rack /Panel. This shall be electrically insulated from the safety electrical
earth.

6.4.34 Cabinet(s) shall be provided with sufficient LED lights as per Hazardous area
classification.

6.4.35 Heating/cooling of analyser cabinet shall be provided as recommended by the
analyser manufacturer or found necessary by the manufacturer to meet following
requirements:

6.4.36 The temperature induced measurement error exceeds ± 1% of full scale in the worst
temperature conditions.

6.4.37 The maximum allowable ambient temperature condition of any component within the
cabinet shall not exceed its limits.

6.4.38 Sub-systems or system components which are installed outdoor shall be suitable
to continuously operate at ambient temperature and humidity specified under ambient
conditions. The heat generation effect of current carrying for the electronic modules
shall also be considered. For this purpose the system shall be rated for minimum 5 deg
C more than the maximum ambient temperature specified. In case the system is not suitable
for the above conditions, necessary cooling arrangement shall be provided.

6.4.39 Power Supply Distribution
6.4.40 440V 3 phase (non-UPS, +/-10% voltage level and frequency 50Hz +/-3%) power supply
(Single point, Non-redundant power supply shall be feed / made available from HPCL).
This shall be used for AC unit and other 3Φ loads like motors in sampling system. This
shall also be used to derive the single phase and neutral supply required. This supply
shall be made available at the incoming terminals of the distribution panel by others.
Vendor shall provide busbar or heavy duty electrical terminals with suitable phase
barriers for termination of aluminium cables. Incoming isolator with fuses and indication
lamps shall be provided by the vendor. An additional contactor with an on/off pushbutton
shall be provided for cutting off the supply in case of an emergency. Further downstream
distribution of the same shall be done using MCCBs or 3 pole and neutral MCBs by vendor.

6.4.41 240VAC single phase (non-UPS, non-floating, +/-10% voltage level and frequency
50Hz +/-3%) power supply. This shall be used for loads like lighting, PC, printers,
monitors, utility sockets and other noncritical loads. This shall be derived from the
440V 3Φ supply as explained above. The distribution of loads shall be done such that the
three phases shall be balanced and unbalance shall be limited to 5%. An incoming isolator
and fuse shall be provided by the vendor. Further distribution of this supply to
individual loads shall be done using single pole and neutral type MCBs.

6.4.42 110VAC single phase (UPS, floating, +/-10% voltage level and frequency 50Hz +/-
3%) power supply (Single point, Non-redundant power supply shall be feed / made available
from client) This shall be used for all critical instrumentation loads like analysers,
separately powered transmitters used in sampling system, etc. This supply shall be made
available at the incoming terminals of the distribution panel by others. Vendor shall
provide bus-bars or heavy duty electrical terminals with suitable phase barriers for
termination of incomer cables. Incoming isolator with fuses and indication lamp shall
be provided by the vendor. A contactor with an on/off pushbutton shall be provided for
cutting off this supply in case of an emergency. Further downstream distribution of the
same shall be done using 2 pole MCBs. This supply shall be cut off only in extreme
emergencies like fire.

6.4.43 24V DC power supply if required, this shall be derived from the 110V AC supply
by the vendor. The philosophy for distribution of this supply shall be same as that for
110V AC supply described above.

Adage remark: Not applicable as analyser shall be mounted inside existing shelter with HVAC.

6.5 Pour Point Analyser:
6.5.1 The analyser shall be certified for hazardous area classification mentioned
elsewhere in the specifications.

6.5.2 Pour Point value output provided by Analyser shall be
compliant to ASTM D-5949 test method or
compliant to ASTM D-5950 test method.

6.5.3 Analyser shall have integrated HMI with touch screen for complete configuration
and control of analyser.

6.5.4 All fittings used in analyser shall be of SS316 minimum of Swagelok or Parker make
and shall be of inches type and not mm type.

6.5.5 Any vent open to atmosphere shall be connected with flame arrestor.

6.5.6 Temperature control system for sample should be based on Peltier cooling/heating
type.

6.5.7 Various outputs shall be available like analogue, digital. Also, serial output
Modbus RTU over RS-485 and USB port shall provide additional diagnostic data of analyser
system.

6.5.8 Where multiple temperature-controlled zones are involved in a single analyser,
each zone shall be well insulated so that the temperature of one zone does not affect
that of another.

6.5.9 All the temperature-controlled zones shall be operated at a temperature well above
the maximum ambient temperature. Provision shall be made for manual temperature control.

6.5.10 The analyser shall be designed considering the components to be analyzed and the
specified cycle time.

6.5.11 Sampling valves shall be of special design to minimize injection problems.

6.5.12 Vendor to ensure the offered analyser shall have linear characteristic throughout
the measuring range as specified in the datasheet.

6.5.13 Performance Specifications:

6.5.14 Unless otherwise specified, the Pour Point Analyser shall meet the following
performance specifications:
Repeatability: Better than / equal to ASTM D97.
Sensitivity: 1 Degree interval
Minimum Detection Limit: 1 DegC or better.

6.5.15 Pour Point Analyser Programmer:
6.5.16 The Pour Point Analyser programmer shall be a microprocessor-based device and
shall directly interact with analyser to control its various functions. The programmer
should be capable of performing the following functions, as a minimum:
a. Proper Control of the analysis cycle including chamber temperature control.
b. Automatic zero adjustment and calibration of the analyser system.
c. Configuration of pour point analyser.
d. Display hardwired analogue outputs for each component.
e. Provide serial output for diagnostics data and components being analyzed for
communication with HPCL’s host system.
6.5.17 The programmer shall be dedicated to pour point analyser. It shall have integral
architecture to analyser.
6.5.18 The analyser programmer shall be programmable from the programmer HMI. The
programmer HMI shall have a keypad/touch screen performing following functions:
a. Configuration/programming and program modifications of analyser.
b. To display analysis data and alarms.

c. To display diagnostic alarms for rapid trouble shooting in the event of system
malfunction.
d. Software/ Program should be loadable and editable for calibrations factors, gate
timings, relay timings. The same can be able to upload and download.
e. To display the trends for each of the analyzed component.
6.5.19 The programming of the programmer shall be user friendly and shall not require
the knowledge of any high-level language. Field modifications of data tables shall be
possible under password protection.
6.5.20 The analyser configuration and application program shall be stored on a non-
volatile memory. Battery backup shall be provided in case memory is volatile. The design
shall ensure that the application program and data tables remain unaffected in case of
power fluctuation or power failure.
6.5.21 The programmer shall be capable of generating the following trends:
a. Continuous trend.
b. Bar graph. It shall be possible to select and display the trends on the programmer’s
dedicated display unit on the programmer interface.
6.5.22 The programmer shall have the capability of storing trend and bar graph of latest
calibration.
6.5.23 The programmer shall provide display and storage of following data:
a. Actual concentration of measured components in engineering units.
b. Provide audio-visual alarm on programmer interface for excessive detector temperature
deviation and zero offset.
c. System diagnostic alarms for pour point analyser and programmer.
6.5.24 On power failure or on communication failure between analyser and programmer, the
analyser shall revert to safe condition i.e. back flush.
6.5.25 The detector shall have capability of detector balancing and zero adjustment
automatically.
6.5.26 The programmer shall provide the following outputs for HPCL’s use:
a. Isolated 4-20mA DC output for pour point within the specified range in engineering
units. For obtaining continuous analogue outputs, peak-pickers and long-term memory
circuit boards shall be provided for each component of interest.
b. Other analogue outputs like line temperature, cabinet temperature, recovery tank
level, etc.
c. Alarm contacts for various critical components faults like analyser fault, chiller
fault etc.
d. Digital Inputs and Outputs for sample and recovery pump like pump trip, ON/OFF,
Auto/Manual. Tank level High, Low, High High etc. facility shall be provided to trip
sample pump from DCS.
e. Serial output with MODBUS (RTU) protocol over RS 485 serial interface and TCP/IP.
f. Vendor to provide list with numbers of each type of outputs – AI, AO, DI and DO.
6.5.27 Communication Interface:
Unless otherwise specified in HPCL’s data sheet the communication interface shall have
the following capabilities:
a. Communicate the values for all measured process variables to the host system in a
form (scaled variable or engineering units) consistent with the host system interface.
Each process variable will be designated by a unique point identification or address.
b. Communicate an ‘Analysis results ready’ discrete signal to the host system for each
cycle. Each ready signal shall have unique point identification or address.
c. Communicate the sample point being used currently to host system for analyser.
d. Communicate analyser diagnostic alarms to the HPCL’s host system i.e DCS for display
and use in control strategies. Theses alarms must include trouble shooting and
maintenance diagnostics for technicians working on analyser.
e. Communicate selection of measurement range, stream and calibration sample selection
from host system to analyser.
f. Communicate a system alarm for the analyser communication.
g. Communicate a system alarm for host system interface hardware and software.
6.6 Sample Handling System:
6.6.1 Sample handling system, fast loop system and recovery system shall be designed &
supplied by the OEM. In case the bidder is not the OEM for the complete analyser system,
following shall apply: a. Basic engineering including design of sample handling system
and sample disposal system shall be by the respective OEM.
b. OEM shall indicate make model No. of the critical components for the SHS, which can
either be supplied by them or can be procured by the Bidder himself.

c. OEM’s representative shall be present during Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) and Site
Acceptance Test (SAT) and any other critical meeting, as desired by HPCL.
6.6.2 Vendor to design the sample handling system for sample point. The sample handling
system shall consist of primary sample conditioning near sample take-off point, sample
transportation line, secondary sample conditioning near the analyser, sample return,
sample/analyser vent and sample drain/recovering system, as applicable.
6.6.3 Sample probe shall be provided by the vendor to obtain representative sample from
the line. The sample probe shall be sandwiched between the pipe nozzle & isolation valve.
The probe design shall ensure the following:
6.6.4 The probe diameter shall be such that it can be easily inserted or removed through
the line isolation valve when in fully open condition. Also, such that it is not limiting
to the fast response time of the system.
6.6.5 Online insertion and retraction of sample probe shall be possible.
6.6.6 The length of the probe shall be selected considering its insertion upto the middle
of the pipe. Probe shall be assessed for resonance effect as per ASME PTC 19.3
6.6.7 Unless otherwise specified, A sample take-off probe is only recommended for single
phase process sampling lines ≥ 3".
6.6.8 When liquid is to be vaporized narrow bore probes & reduced bore of valve shall
be used to keep the liquid volume to minimum.
6.6.9 Sample handling system shall be designed considering process conditions specified
in the datasheet to make sample suitable for the analysis. The unit shall be supplied
with all equipment necessary to condition each stream for injection into the analyser.
6.6.10 The system must include but not limited to filters (coarse and fine),
pressure/differential pressure indicators, relief valves, regulators, flow indicators,
flow controllers, temperature indicators, scrubbers, heaters, coolers, dryers, sample
pumps, aspirators etc. as required.
6.6.11 Analyser system shall be with Validation tank. The tank shall have necessary
connections for sample filling and drain and level gauge. Connection for Nitrogen inlet
and atmospheric vent. Necessary PSVs and pressure gauges as per requirement.
6.6.12 Analyser shall have dedicated sample handling system.
6.6.13 All the components of sample handling system shall be designed and placed inside
SS316 enclosure in such that, each & every component, fitting shall be easily accessible
for maintenance purpose and also shall have a viewing window.
6.6.14 In case the temperature is required to be maintained at primary and secondary
sample conditioning, both these conditioning units shall be installed in the heated
box/cabinet.
6.6.15 Sampling of process sample shall be continuous and shall ensure the availability
of representative sample to the analyser system for analysis for cycle.
6.6.16 Vendor to consider approximate distance between sample intake points to analyser
skid for the sample transportation time calculation, design the sample handling system,
pump etc as per below list –
Sr No Location Description Approx. distance in meter
1 Sample Take off Point 200
2 Sample return into process point 300
Vendor to note that, sample line shall have several bends and joints to route inside the
plant. Before entering to the analyser cabinet, sample lines are routed overhead as per
the site condition. Vendor to visit the site to confirm the distance and routing of the
sample lines prior to design & selection of fast loop & return pumps.
6.6.17 Vendor to consider & supply sample tube & fittings and filters as per requirement.
Cost for the same shall be considered in the base price of analyser. All tubing shall
be of Sandvik or Parker make. All fittings shall be of Swagelok or Parker make. As far
as possible same sizing to be considered and shall of inches scale.
6.6.18 As the analyser is located away from the sample take-off point, vendor shall
design the sample fast loop (bypass loop) as part of sampling system. Design shall ensure
that the sample drawn is true representative of the process sample to be analyzed.
6.6.19 Vendor to consider suitable minimum intervention / maintenance type pumps with
redundant configuration.

Adage Remark : supply & return line/Pipe shall be in HPCL scope
of supply as per Pre Bid confirmation. Internal tubbing shall be in
Adage scope of supply.

6.6.20 In general, sampling systems shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
API RP- 555. The design of sample handling system shall consider the following factors,
as a minimum:
a. The pressure-temperature conditions required for the analyser.
b. Interfering components in the process sample.
c. Normal and abnormal sample compositions.
d. Sample return pressure-temperature conditions.
e. Fouling sample conditions e.g. polymer formation or presence of solids etc.
f. Transportation time requirements.
g. Utilities available and their process conditions.

6.6.21 Where sample is required to be transported in hot condition, sample shall be
drawn using prefabricated heated tubes. The heated medium shall be electric power unless
otherwise specified in HPCL's data sheet.
6.6.22 Heating shall be controlled such that the sample temperature is maintained
typically around +20°C above the sample dew point.
6.6.23 When fast loop is specified or recommended by vendor, vendor shall provide
flowmeter for sample bypass flow. Sample return line to process shall be provided with
isolation valve and check valve. Vendor shall ensure that return pressure of the sample
shall be higher than the pressure of the process return point specified in HPCL's data
sheet. Samples should be returned back to process stream as specified in data sheet.
6.6.24 Sampling system shall include provision for connecting calibration sample in auto
or in manual configuration as specified in HPCL's data sheet.
6.6.25 Filters shall always be provided in redundant configuration. It shall be possible
to replace the filter without upsetting the operation of the analyser.
6.6.26 Vendor to consider membrane filter (Genie make) as per requirement.
6.6.27 Where sample handling system requires heat to properly condition the sample, it
will be enclosed in a thermally insulated enclosure. Temperature shall be controlled by
an accurate control system to ensure proper sample conditioning. Temperature Indication
of the same to be provided.
6.6.28 The sampling system shall contain at least one wire mesh strainer of standard
sieve mesh size 100 or finer. Where HPCL’s data sheet indicates greater possibilities
of plugging, vendor shall provide more filters/separators as required.
6.6.29 Stream selecting valves shall be located as close as possible to the analyser to
minimize connecting tubing length and possibility of cross contamination of samples.
6.6.30 The sampling system shall be designed to consider plugging of sample lines under
following conditions, if applicable:
a. Failure of heat tracing
b. Failure of sample pump
c. Failure of cooling water
d. Failure of power
e. Failure of instrument air, particularly when sample dilution technique is adopted for
sample.
f. Upset or start-up conditions, if excessive solids/solid particles are expected under
these operating conditions

6.6.31 A suitable restriction orifice shall be provided in each sample line to limit the
sample flow exceedingly thrice the normal flow in the event of tube rupture or opening
of tube down the line.

7.0 General Terms & Condition:
7.1 Bid Document:
7.2 Vendor to attach the following as minimum with the offer,
7.3 Signed & Stamped copy of Technical Specification along with complete annexures of
the RFQ tender specifications of the analyser system.
7.4 Detail Bill of Material indicating make & model number.
7.5 Detail specification of the offered analyser with de-codification sheet.
7.6 A detailed drawing showing various components of sample conditioning system and
their piping/tubing hook-up arrangement including sample return, vent, utilities
connection as necessary.
7.7 Analyser probe, process connection & installation drawing. Sample transportation
time calculations for the specified distance between sample point and analyser indicating
sample flow rate and the recommended size of the sampling tube.

7.8 Complete analyser system GA/IA drawing.
7.9 Compliance for the requirement of CCoE / PESO certificate as per area classification
for all the instruments / equipment as applicable.
7.10 Utility requirements and their consumption i.e., instrument air, cooling water,
steam etc. along with their process conditions like flow, pressure and temperature.
7.11 Power consumption for each analyser and its accessories for 110 V AC UPS and 230VAC
/ 440VAC non-UPS.
7.12 Catalogues giving detailed technical specifications, model decoding details and
other related information for the offered analyser and accessories covered in the bid.
7.13 All documentation submitted by the vendor including their quotation, catalogues,
drawings, installation, operation and maintenance manuals, etc shall be in English
language only.
7.14 Any special instrument or tool needed for testing, calibration and maintenance of
the analyser such as spanner set (for tubes smaller than 1/4") these tools and equipment
shall be supplied by the vendor.
7.15 Vendor shall provide the price which includes all the associated accessories,
inspection, testing and applicable statutory certificate requirements.
7.16 Vendor shall indicate the BOM with price break-up indicating make & model no. to
fulfill the tender specification.
7.17 Deviations on technical requirements is not acceptable. In case of any
deviation/clarification, vendor shall indicate the same in the Technical Deviation sheet
with technical reason for the same.
8.0 Responsibility Chart: Refer Annexure – 02.
9.0 Spare Requirement: Vendor to supply the below indicated spares, accessories and
tools & tackles (sr no: 9.1 to 9.4).
9.1 Consumables and Commissioning Spares: Bidder shall supply all required spare parts
for the Pour Point Analyser system required during start up and commissioning period
(Till SAT). List of start-up and commissioning spares considered by bidder for the
analyser shall be furnished in the offer. Any additional spares required over and above
the list provided by bidder in this offer during start up and commissioning shall be
supplied by bidder without any time and cost implications to HPCL. Consumables including
calibration blend and any other consumable required for one year of trouble-free
operation from the date of SAT shall be provided by the bidder. List of consumable spares
shall be provided by the bidder in the offer.
9.3 Additional Accessories: Apart from the spares following shall be considered for the
additional spares and same to be supplied by the bidder. The price for the same shall
be in-line of SOR format – a. RS-485 to USB Converter (MOXA make) b. RS-485 to HART
Converter
9.4 Special Tools and Tackles: Bidder shall also consider special tools and tackles such
as laptop with relevant software for maintenance, calibration etc and the price of same
shall be included by bidder in base price of analyser system. However, the list of the
tools and tackles considered shall be submitted along with the offer. In case no special
tools are required, same shall be indicated in the offer.

10.0 Delivery Period: Material shall be dispatched only after M/s HPCL provides dispatch
clearance based on FAT/ inspection and approval of the documents submitted by the vendor.
Material shall be delivered at Mumbai Refinery warehouse along with packing slip and
relevant documents. The delivery period for the material supply shall be 30 weeks from
the date of purchase order placement / Letter of Intent (LOI). The delivery period for
the installation & commissioning shall be 1 month after the site clearance issued by
HPCL Engineer-In-Charge.

11.0 Payment Terms:
Payment Terms:
================
a) As per HPCL GTC against submission of complete Delivery/ Tax Invoices/ reports/
supporting documents etc. as per PO terms and conditions, to the satisfaction of Engineer
in-charge.
For Supply (Tender Line Item 1)
85% against receipt of material at Mumbai Refinery Site.
5% against submission of Performance Bank Guarantee in HPCL format valid for warranty
period.

5% against completion of installation & commissioning.
5% against submission of As-built documentation (After installation and commissioning).

For Installation and Commissioning (Tender Line Item 2)
100% payment against completion of job and submission of certified invoice. Completion
will be considered tag wise/item wise (each completed analyser)
Bidders are expected to comply strictly with the above payment terms. No advance payment
will be applicable
Installation & commissioning and training charges shall be inclusive of boarding, lodging
and to and fro travel of vendor personnel.

b) Supplier shall not exceed or deliver more than the quantity/ amount mentioned as in
the PO. No extra payment will be considered for exceeded quantities, if any.
c) Original invoice complete with VIT registration acknowledgement to be sent to HPCL
Finance. Copies of invoice, VIT, original challans, gate passes, test certificates and
all other relevant documents to be sent to HPCL user for verification and receipt. For
invoice VIT registration, please log on with your HPCL vendor registration details on
the following link: http://vss.hpcl.co.in/

12.0 Inspection & Testing:
12.1 Internal Test report: Vendor to submit the following minimum documents as part of
internal test report –
12.1.1 Complete project bill of material with make, model and parts number.
12.1.2 Complete analyser system GA/IA drawing.
12.1.3 Analyser enclosure and analyser cabinet MOC, IP certificate.
12.1.4 Complete signal wiring Diagram.
12.1.5 Power distribution diagram.
12.1.6 Pour Point Analyser calibration report from OEM and integrator/supplier.
12.1.7 All sample used for calibration and testing shall be NIST traceable and
certificate of the same to be provided.
12.1.8 24-hours continuous repeatability test report for each of the components from OEM
works at country of origin.
12.1.9 8-hours continuous base line stability test report without auto zero baseline
correction from OEM works at country of origin.
12.1.10 Analyser system accuracy test report from OEM & integrator / supplier with
respect to the certified cylinder concentration.
12.1.11 8-hours continuous repeatability test report from the integrator / supplier
including complete sample handling system.
12.1.12 4-hours continuous base line stability test report without auto zero baseline
correction from the integrator / supplier including complete sample handling system.
12.1.13 Manual and catalogue each of the component with model number and model
decodification sheet.
12.1.14 All applicable statutory certificates for all the electronic equipment.
12.2 Factory Acceptance Test (FAT): Vendor shall be fully responsible for completing all
the in-house testing and test reports stated in clause under internal test report, shall
be ready before inspection by HPCL. Vendor shall intimate HPCL for inspection min two
weeks in advance. The FAT shall be carried out at vendor’s works as per the approved FAT
procedure. Vendor shall submit the FAT procedure for approval during detail engineering.
HPCL shall inspect all the items at vendor’s workplace in line with inspection test
plan. Total system shall be demonstrated by the vendor during HPCL inspection at vendor’s
works. Vendor shall submit all the specified documents, test certificates and test
reports for HPCL review. All imported instruments and system-oriented items shall undergo
factory testing and inspected by HPCL unless otherwise specified. Vendor shall submit
the OEM test reports meeting the tender specification for review and approval by HPCL.
12.3 Site Acceptance Test (SAT): Site acceptance test shall be carried out after
successfully installation and commissioning of the system. Vendor shall be fully
responsible to carry out the SAT with user’s fullest satisfaction. The HPCL will take
over the system from the supplier after the SAT, which shall include successful
uninterrupted operation of the integrated system for two months after commissioning of
the system. However, the total care and maintenance of the analyser system till
acceptance of SAT shall be in the Vendor’s Scope. Any malfunction of the system component
shall be replaced / repaired as required. Once the system failure is detected the
acceptance test shall start all over again from the beginning.

12.4 Training: After installation and commissioning of the Pour Point Analyser system,
vendor shall provide onsite training and also shall arrange training at HPCL site and
classroom for total 3 man-days for the supplied Analyser System. Training shall include
theoretical as well as practical knowledge i.e., configuration, operation, maintenance,
troubleshooting etc.

12.5 Warranty Period: Vendor shall provide standard warranty the supplied Analyser System
for a period of 24 months from the date of commissioning or 36 months from the date of
supply whichever is earlier. Any deficiency observed during this period shall be set
right by the vendor without any further cost implication to the HPCL.
13.0 Post Warranty Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (PWCAMC): Post warranty
period Analyser system shall be under CAMC. The scope of CAMC shall be same as
Comprehensive AMC as mentioned below. CAMC shall be valid for 5 years from warranty
expiry date.
14.0 Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (PWCAMC):
14.1 Vendor shall have the capability to provide comprehensive Annual Maintenance
Contract (PWCAMC) service after successful commissioning of the system i.e SAT. Proof
for the same shall be submitted.
14.2 Vendor shall quote for PWCAMC charges for five years

14.3 Each and every component supplied in this order shall be covered under PWCAMC. In
PWCAMC, supply of all the required spares and consumables shall be in vendor’s scope.

The PWCAMC scope shall broadly comprise of:
14.4 Vendor shall provide total maintenance of the supplied system including all hardware
/ software along with all the related accessories including bought out items for system.
14.5 Travel, Lodging & Boarding of the service engineer during the PWCAMC period shall
be under vendor’s scope.
14.6 The maintenance contract shall include minimum weekly one visit / OEM recommendation
for
preventive
maintenance
and
any
number
of
visits
in
case
of
system
breakdown/emergency.
14.7 In-case the OEM recommended validation frequency is less than a month, vendor to
consider the frequency of visit as per calibration frequency as minimum.
14.8 In addition to OEM recommendation, the frequency of validation shall be decided
based on the analyser performance over a period of time.

14.9 The scope of work shall be performed by trained analyser specialists for
maintenance, operations and performance improvement of analysers. Vendor shall ensure
the calibration / proper functioning of Analysers, Sample handling system and other
associated systems.

14.10 Attending failure immediately by repair or replacement of the failed component.
Provide system maintenance and repair of system or workmanship defects during the
contract period free of charge (parts and labor).

14.11 Service or maintenance personnel shall be able to receive 24-hour help-desk
technical support.

14.12 In the event of any malfunction of the analysers, experienced service engineer
shall be made available at site within 24 hours on the receipt of such information from
HPCL. Vendor shall carry out the job/activity after obtaining the proper permit from the
user/ operation department.

14.13 Vendor Engineers will follow the safety rules, statutory rules and regulations,
labour laws etc. of HPCL.

14.14 Contractors engineer and technicians shall report to the HPCL engineer/ Engineer-
incharge for reporting /performing the activities.

14.15 Contractor needs to go through HPCL safety training before working in plant area
and avail valid safety certificate and gate pass.
14.16 A quarterly review meeting of management of Contractor with HPCL will be held at
site to assess the performance of Analysers and preparation of action plan for immediate
implementation.
14.17 In case of extreme emergency of the job requirement for working during holidays,
compensatory off can be given for the number of worked days in a month.
14.18 Calibration shall be witnessed by M/S HPCL officer in-charge for the purpose of
establishing availability.
14.19 For any modification in the analyser system the same shall be detailed and carried
out after approval from M/s HPCL. Preventive Maintenance Visits:
14.20 The vendor’s certified experienced Field Service engineer shall visit the site
once every week for preventive maintenance checks.
14.21 The vendor shall prepare a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for the
analyser in-line with OEM recommendation. Vendor to submit the OEM recommended SOP.
14.22 The software check shall include minor modifications to improve existing
application performance, backup operations and software updates (latest releases). All
consumables required for the analyser functioning shall be under the vendor’s scope.
14.23 As a minimum requirement, following activities shall be carried out during the
visit:
14.23.1 Weekly performance checks of the analyser.
14.23.2 Servicing of the analysers and the sample handling system.
14.23.3 Replacement of analyser consumables, sample pumps, filter cleaning etc.
14.23.4 Report and attend any problem if found during the checking of the system.
14.23.5 Prepare and submit the service report in tabular format for the analyser after
every visit to the Engineer-in-charge.
14.23.6 Data obtained from the checks and copies of associated Quality Assurance
documentation, shall be submitted to the Engineer-in-charge.
14.23.8 Complete periodic overhaul of the analysers, inspection of the sample handling,
cleaning/replacement of filters as per schedule, environmental operating condition
checks and detailed reporting.
14.23.9 Regular replacement of analyser consumable as per requirement / agreed
procedures.
14.23.10 Checking of leaks in system.
14.23.11 Vendor shall ensure the reliability of the analysers. The reading should co-
relate to standard mixtures, lab results depending on method of lab measurement.
14.23.12 Contractor shall maintain Log Book and update records of each analyser for all
activities like validation, faults observed, action taken, next Schedule and spares
utilized and available spares. All these records as per HPCL approved formats.
14.23.13 Cleaning of site after/during the servicing/ maintenance job to maintain the
necessary ambience.
14.23.14 Working hours shall be 8 hours basis, 6 days a week. Contractor’s Engineer
shall follow HPCL list of declared holidays.
14.23.15 Breakdown Maintenance: Troubleshooting of all instrument failures, In case the
problem cannot be identified by the site engineers then analyser specialist to be
organized as early as possible. If problem cannot be solved by specialist and need OEM
support in those circumstances methods of action will be mutually agreed and discussed.
14.23.16 Emergency Visits:In the event of any failure / malfunctioning of the system,
experienced service engineer shall be made available at the site within 24hrs on receipt
of such information from the owner.
14.23.17 The engineer shall attend the problem and submit a root cause analysis report
for the failure.
14.23.18 There shall not be any limit on number of visits on emergency call. Contractor’s
Scope of Supply:
14.23.19 All tools, test instruments and tackles required to maintain the analysers
shall be in contractor's scope.
14.23.20 Minor consumable like Teflon tape, insulation tape and cleaning agents shall
be arranged by contractor.
14.23.21 Supply of spares & consumables shall be in Contractor's scope. If any spares
used from HPCL stock due to emergency, then the same shall be replaced by Vendor within
7 days with no cost to HPCL. Replaced spare shall be new and unused.
14.23.22 All personal protective equipment like cover all apron, safety helmet, safety
shoes and safety belt required for working inside plant area shall be in Vendor's scope.

14.23.23 Vendor shall ensure availability analyser specialist Engineer trained from
manufacturer works at HPCL Refinery Site during contract period for carrying out day to
day maintenance and troubleshooting of analysers as mentioned above. HPCL shall reserve
the right for seeking the replacement of another engineer, in case of their deputed site
engineer / technician being found not suitable.
14.23.24 Contractor's engineers to perform general shift duties of 9 hours duration
(08:00 AM to 5:00 pm) and also attend to the problems on odd hours if required to meet
the exigencies.
14.23.25 During emergencies, the maximum working hours are limited to 12 Hours for any
of the contractor staff. Compensatory off will be given if worked on Sundays & HPCL
declared holidays.
14.23.26 However for any ongoing and continuation jobs and in situation where analysers
are down, the contractor is expected to work on need basis with analyser specialist to
meet the 95% availability.
Reporting: 14.23.27 Generate report strictly as per the format given by HPCL and as per
the direction of Engineer In-charge specifically mentioning the Drift, Faults, Action
taken, Spares used, if any.
14.23.28 Maintain the records for monthly validation, preventive maintenance and
breakdown maintenance.
14.23.29 Record all the observations and action taken in a register duly signed and
certified by HPCL engineer.
14.23.30 AMC start up initial activities following jobs are to be completed within 15
days of start up of contract jobs.
14.23.31 Yearly preventive maintenance schedule to be submitted.
14.23.32 List of annual spares / consumables consumption, adequate stock of spares
required for all the analysers, covered under this contract to be submitted.
14.23.33 Payment Terms: The payment shall be made on quarterly basis against the
submission of bill along with certification by HPCL, engineer-in-charge with following
documents like calibration report, detail of activity carried out with data for each
analyser, details of area of concern, online trends for all analysers and breakdown
deduction clause (if any).
14.23.34 Payments for PWCAMC services shall be as per Purchase order. HPCL reserves the
right to invoke part or full bank Guarantee amount in case of poor performance of system
or poor PWCAMC support provided by the Vendor at any stage during the PWCAMC period.
HPCL's decision in this regard shall be final and shall be binding to the Vendor.
14.23.35 Availability criteria: The system availability shall be maintained at min of
95% per month. Performance of analysers shall be reviewed monthly and 95% availability
of each analyser shall be checked through DCS history record and maintenance records.
In the event of the non-compliance of the system availability, deductions from the
monthly payment shall be applicable as per the below table.
14.23.36 In situations where the analyser availability found to be less than 80% then
review will be done with service in charge manager / with the management level from both
sides and further action plan will be made.
14.23.37 If analyser is not in service due to reasons of process upset and other reasons
mutually agreed by both M/s HPCL and Contractor, it will not be considered in the
percentage availability calculation and deductions will not be applicable for the part
covered.
14.23.38 Analysers kept offline during shut-down of the plant or sample problem shall
not be considered in the percentage availability calculation.
14.23.39 If Analyser system goes break down state during off duty hours the time of
breakdown shall be counted from next day starting time of duty hours. However, time in
hours for the non-availability of analyser for the deduction purpose will be considered
only after getting necessary permit and clearance for carrying out the site job.
15.0 Documentation: Final documentation consisting of design data, installation,
operation and maintenance manual etc., submitted by the vendor after placement of
purchase order shall include the following, as a minimum:
a) Specification sheet for the analyser and its accessories.
b) Certified drawings for the analyser and its accessories which shall provide the
following information
i. Overall dimensions in millimeters.
ii. Sampling system details identifying each component with make and model number,
process connection, utility connection, calibration sample/gas connection, heat tracing
requirements, sample vent and fast loop details etc.

iii. The flow, pressure and temperature at interface and other appropriate location must
be shown in the sampling system drawing.
iv. Detailed interconnection drawing of each analyser identifying each component with
terminal number, cable type, cable size and cable entry details. The interface details
shall be clearly identified in the drawing.
v. Grounding details.
vi. Power supply distribution details.
c) Programming/configuration data for the analyser, as applicable.
d) Serial interface specification including its configuration data (addresses) for host
communication.
e) Power consumptions and utility requirements.
f) Calibration curves and calibration data for each analyser.
g) Zero and span calibration blend specification including composition, shelf life time
and accuracy.
h) Copy of type test certificates.
i) Installation procedure for each analyser and their accessories.
j) Maintenance and troubleshooting procedures including replacement of its parts
/internals wherever applicable.
k) Sample Lag Time Calculation
l) Heat Load Calculation
m) Sample handling system flow schematics
n) All components datasheets, manual and certificates.

16. Contact persons for tender related technical queries:

i) V S Sule, Manager, Maint- Inst. Email: vishwassule@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507 7220
ii) Sreejita Saha, Officer-Maint-Inst. Email:sreejita.saha@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507 6147.
iii) Prasun Sarkar, Sr. Manager, Maint-Inst, Email: prasunsarkar@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507
6477

Contact persons for supply- delivery- payment- installation related queries:
i) V S Sule, Manager, Maint- Inst. Email: vishwassule@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507 7220
ii) Sreejita Saha, Officer-Maint-Inst. Email:sreejita.saha@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507 6147.

iii) Prasun Sarkar, Sr. Manager, Maint-Inst, Email: prasunsarkar@hpcl.in Ph: 022 2507
6477

iv) Finance: Majesh PM, Sr. Manager-Integrated Finance Services, majeshpm@hpcl.in Ph:
9488158669

Sr
No
Item Description
Vendor list
1
SS Tube
Sandvik / Parker
2
Tube fittings, TEE, Elbows
Swagelok Co./ Parker Hannifin Corp
3
Filters
Swagelok Co./ Parker Hannifin Corp
4
Ball valves / Safety relief valve/actuator
operated valve
Swagelok Co./ Parker Hannifin Corp / Hoke
5
Pressure regulator
Tescom / GO
6
Sample Cooler
Sentry / Alfa Laval
7
Rotameter
Brooks/Kronhe
8
Junction Box / Lights
Baliga / FCG / Flexpro
9
Cylinder regulator
Tescom / GO
10
Pressure gauge
Wika / Ashcroft
11
Coalescer filter
PALL/ Swagelok Co./ Parker Hannifin Corp
12
Solenoid valve
Asco USA / Herion (Imported)
13
MCT Blocks
Roxtec / Brattberg
14
Pump
Wanner / Hydracell
15
Purge Controller / Signal Barriers
Pepperl Fuchs / MTL
16
Field Cabinet
Hoffman / Pyrotech
17
Chiller System
Reputed
Make
with
sufficient
PTR
for
Hydrocarbon Plants Installation.
18
Armored Cables
KEI, Polycab, Thermo, Cords, Udey Pyro
19
Electronics Transmitters / Switches
Emerson / Yokogawa
20
Electrical
heat
traced
Tube
with
Accessories
Thermon / O Brien / Raychem
21
MCB
Siemens / ABB / Legrand
22
Power Supply unit
Pheonix / Cosel

Job Responsibility Chart - Online Pour Point Analyzer System at LOBS Unit, HPCL MR
Sr No
Job Description
Vendor
HPCL
Supply material
1
System design, Engineering, Material Selection as per tender requirement
Yes

2
Online Pour Point Analyzer System with all the accessories
Yes

3
Analyzer cabinet with accessories
Yes

4
Junction Boxes with cable gland & plugs, tubes, fittings etc
Yes

5
Sample tube & Sample Handling System, Recovery with accessories
Yes

6
FAT and other test
Yes

7
Sample Pumps, Chiller Unit with accessories
Yes

8
Sample connection upto the Analyzer Cabinet
Yes

9
Sample connection to Pour Point analyzer tubing, drain point connection etc
within the analyzer cabinet
Yes

10
SS tag plates
Yes

11
All type of spares & accessories, tools & tackles, cylinders
Yes

12
Provision of air line

Yes
13
Lagging/insulation materials for process line

Yes
14
Earthing cable
Yes

15
Earth pit with earth bas bar

Yes
Site Erection Job
1
Transportation of material from HPCL Ware-House / Issue point to Site

Yes
2
Supervision of Installation of new Pour Point Analyzer System
Yes

3
Civil / Structural base frame modification

Yes
4
Erecrion of GI tray with supports for sample & return line

Yes
5
Cable laying, Cable tray with supports from analyzer to plant DCS

Yes
6
Glanding & termination at Junction Box at Analyzer end
Yes

7
Provision of SS tag plate
Yes

8
Laying of earthing cable
Yes

9
Provision of utilities at one point

Yes
10
Tubing for analyzer system
Yes

11
Provision of insulation/lagging for process line

Yes
12
Loop Checking, calibration
Yes

13
Commissioning of the analyzer system
Yes

14
Training
Yes

15
SAT
Yes

16
Documentation
Yes

7. Sample
pump is not
required as
per HPCL
confirmation.
5. Sample
tubbing for
supply & return
in HPCL
scope till
SSHS.