Quotation Number: SQ2501G002rev004
BOQ Status: FOUND

PART A: SUMMARY OF PRICES
SR. NO.
ITEM DESCRIPTION
UOM
PER MAN DAY UNIT RATE (RS.)
1
Expert services for Maintnance of Maxum
II Gas Chromatograph
First Year
1
₹ 65,000.00
2
Expert services for Maintnance of Maxum
II Gas Chromatograph
Second Year
1
₹ 71,500.00
3
Expert services for Maintnance of Maxum
II Gas Chromatograph
Third Year
1
₹ 78,650.00
SPECIAL NOTE:
1. GST Shall be charged extra as applicable. Presently @ 18%.
2. Any modification, mechanical and civil work required during the contact period and lifting & shifting of
material shall be in GAIL scope.
3. Working time shall be as per industrial norms. i.e., 8 hrs. per Man Day.
4. Service Engineer will be visit on site after getting service request email from GAIL within min 3
working man days.
5. Lodging, Boarding, to and fro charges shall be included in M/s Adage scope.
6. All types of spares (consumables/mandatory/operational/critical) shall be in GAIL scope.
7. Non arrangement of gate pass during the site visit shall be consider full man day and claim as per per
man day rate.
8. Per visit for maintenance of Maxum II GC should be consist of minimum 2 Man days.
GAIL SCOPE:
1. All types of required spares.
2. Issue of necessary work permit / gate passes for carrying out the job as per GAIL rules and
Regulations.
3. GAIL shall provide additional manpower / equipment required time to time for shifting of heavy
Materials or any major modification of the existing system.
4. Scaffolding requirement for work at height will be arranged by GAIL.
5. Required calibration and carrier gas cylinder refilling.
6. Other instruments in analyser shelter/Field cabinet like HVAC/AC, HVAC/AC PLC, Fire and Gas
Detection system, Fire and Gas safety equipment’s, shelter PC and Printers maintenance will be
Under GAIL scope. However, Adage site engineer will be check and intimate GAIL for necessary
Repair and maintenance job requirements time to time.
ADAGE SCOPE:
1. Calibration and report submission after every site visit.
2. Required spare parts offer submission.
