NOTICE INVITING TENDER

ENQUIRY NO.
6000/S005/GU/S005000197
LAST DATE & TIME
FOR SUBMISSION OF
BID
08.12.2025

ISSUE DATE:
24/11/2025
BID OPENING DATE &
TIME
09.12.2025

To:
M/s. ADAGE Automation Pvt. Ltd., Goa

TYPE OF BID
Single Stage
SUB: CEMS Cloud porter hosting annual subscription at KFL, Shahjahanpur

Dear Sir,
We are pleased to issue enquiry for CEMS Cloud porter hosting annual subscription at KFL,
Shahjahanpur. Please submit your quotation in accordance with details mentioned in enquiry.

1.1
Enclosed please find one copy each of the following documents:
S. No.
Item
Annexure
1
Instruction to bidders
I
2
General and Commercial Terms & Conditions
II
3
Scope of works
III
4
Schedule of Rates
IV

1.2
The bid as completed and duly signed & stamp should be submitted in sealed envelopes with
name of work super scribed thereon either personally or by Registered Post AD/DTDC Courier
so as to reach the same latest by 14.04.2023 to undersigned.

1.3
Please acknowledge the receipt of enquiry by Email and submit bid on or before the stipulated
date. Interested bidders should indicate by Email their intention to participate in the Bidding

Yours faithfully,
For KRIBHCO Fertilizers Limited

(Authorized Signatory)

Annexure-1

INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS
1.0
INTRODUCTION

Kribhco Fertilizers Limited (KFL) invites bids for the work as described in the enclosed scope of
work/SOR (Schedule of Rates). The bidder is requested to submit his bid in accordance with
terms and conditions of enquiry, on or before the due date and time

2.0
ENQUIRY NUMBER

The enquiry number indicated on page-1 of enquiry must appear in all correspondence and
document.

3.0
CONTENT OF BID:
The bid shall consist of following:

Priced bid.
Schedule of Rates (duly filled in with offered rates) (SOR) – (Annexure-4)

4.0
VALIDITY OF BID:
The bid submitted by the bidder shall remain valid for acceptance for a period of 90 (Ninety)
days from the date of opening of the Techno Commercial Bid. The bidder shall not be entitled
during the said period of 90 days to revoke and / or to cancel the bid. In case, the bidder
revokes or revises the bid or varies any term in regard thereof without the written consent of
the Owner, the bid shall be liable for rejection and EMD if any may be forfeited.

5.0
GENERAL
5.1
Bidders are advised to quote ‘item rates’ exclusive of ‘GST’ separately and indicate exact
percentage of GST on which amount the same is payable in ‘Techno-Commercial Bid’ very
clearly.
5.2
The bid submitted should be complete in all respects; any bid with incomplete documents/
information shall be liable for rejection.
5.3
The submission of all NIT terms & conditions is mandatory to submit as token of acceptance,
indicating the deviation to the Enquiry terms and for submitting the details of required
documents.
5.4
The bid received after the specified date and time will be liable for rejection and shall be
returned un-opened.
5.5
The bidder, after receipt of the enquiry document, may visit the site, collect information and
satisfy himself about the local conditions, location, and accessibility of site, nature / extent /
character of work and obtain required clarifications, if any, in connection with the execution
of the work, from the Owner. No claim, of any nature on any ground or inadequate information
or knowledge or misunderstanding or otherwise in any respect on the site, the work, etc., shall
be admissible.
5.6
The bidder shall set his bid in firm figures and without qualifications or variations or additions
in terms of the enquiry document. In case the bid contains qualifying expressions such as
“Subject to minimum acceptable quantity” or “subject to prior sale” or any other qualifying
expressions incorporated the enquiry document, such terms and conditions shall not be
considered for evaluation of the bid, and the bid shall be liable for rejection.
5.7
The bidder shall not be permitted to assign or subcontract the work or any part of the work
awarded in their favour.
5.8
The Owner reserves the right to accept or reject any or all bids, in whole or in part, and to
accept any other bid than the lowest priced bid without assigning any reason, whatsoever, it
may be.
5.9
KFL has got all the right to split the work order in the interest of earliest execution. The entire
work under the enquiry may be awarded to one or more bidders or the work may be awarded
in part and not entirely, if so considered by the Owner.
5.10
Canvassing in any manner in connection with enquiry and / or bidding is strictly prohibited and
the bids submitted by the bidders who resort to canvassing shall be liable to rejection.
5.11
The bidder shall quote rates and total amounts, both in figures and words in Performa of
‘Schedule of Rates (SOR)’ enclosed as Annexure-4 with enquiry, in such a way that inter-
polation is not possible. The rate for each item shall be worked out and entered against it in
the column of rate and total amount for quantity of that item to be entered under column of
total amount. Similarly, rate and total amount for all items shall be entered. The total amount
for entire work shall also be entered in SOR.

5.12
If any discrepancy is found between the rate(s) / total amount in words and figures or the total
amount for the entire work given in the bid, the following procedure shall be followed:

i) When there is a difference between the rate given in figure and word, the rate, which
corresponds to the total amount given in the bid, shall be taken as correct.
ii) When the rate given in the bid in figures and words tallies but the total amount is incorrect,
the rate as given in the bid in the words shall be taken as correct.
iii) When it is not possible to ascertain the correct rate, in the manner prescribed above, the
rate as given in the bid in the word shall be treated as correct and adopted.
iv) In case of any totaling error, the same would not be taken cognisance of but the corrected
total value shall be adopted. The corrections and alterations in the bid shall be signed in
full by the bidder / his authorized signatory with date. No over writing shall be permitted.
5.13
The information given in this enquiry and the plans and drawings forming part thereof are
merely intended as general information without undertaking on the part of the owner as to
their accuracy and without obligation relative there to upon the Owner. Bidders shall conduct
their own survey and investigation prior to submitting bid. No claim, of any nature on any
ground or inadequate information or knowledge or misunderstanding or otherwise in any
respect on the site, the work, etc., shall be admissible.
5.14
The quantities, indicated in the Performa of Schedule of Rates (SOR) with respect to the
various items are only approximate and are intended merely as information without
undertaking as to the correctness thereof and without any obligation relative there to upon
the Owner. No claim shall be entertained for un-operated items/quantities.
5.15
The bidder, before submitting his bid, shall acquaint himself and shall be deemed to have
undertaken a thorough study of the proposed work, the job site (s) involved, the site
conditions, soil conditions, the terrain, the climatic conditions, the labour, power, water
material and equipment availability, transport and communications facilities, availability and
transport suitability of borrow areas, the availability of land for right of way and temporary
office and accommodations quarters in nearby areas, and all other factors and facilities
necessary or relevant for the preparation of the bid for the performance of the work including
supply of materials and / or labour (wherever applicable). No increase in price or other changes
to his bid shall be accepted by the Owner due to the bidder’s lack of information about the
work, site, availability of facilities, etc.
5.16
The bid received shall be evaluated on the basis of all the SOR items & considering all taxes
duties & other charges indicated in the bids. In case any bidder does not quote for any item of
SOR the evaluation shall be made considering the higher rates received from the other bidders
against the same SOR item for arriving at the status of bidder. The lowest rate from the other
bidders shall be considered on discretion of KFL.
5.17
The bidder shall not be entitled to claim any costs, charges, expenses for or incidental to in
connection with preparation and submission and subsequent clarification of his tender even
if Owner decides to withdraw the invitation to tender or the tender is rejected on any count.
5.18
The bid documents and all other documents attached to it, shall remain the property of the
owner. These document are transmitted to the bidders solely for the purpose of preparation
and submission of bid in accordance with the work requirement. The bidder shall keep these
documents as confidential & shall not disclose / release the content either in full or any part
thereof to the a third party.
5.19
All communication and correspondence with respect to this enquiry shall be addressed to:

AGM (Materials)
Kribhco Fertilizers Limited
Village & Post : Piprola,
DIST.

: Shahjahanpur – 242223.
Uttar Pradesh (India)
E mail: gauravupadhayay@kfl.net.in, rkagarwal@kfl.net.in, skgarg@kfl.net.in
Mob: 8448214795

5.20
The bidder should indicate the deviation if any & submit the same with bid. Bidders should
neither indicate any commercial condition nor should indicate any charges levies, in the price
bid / SOR item of NIT. In case it is observed that SOR / Price bid includes any terms which is
not in line with techno commercial requirement of NIT or subsequent confirmation sought/
received at later date (before opening of Price bid), the subsequent confirmation given w.r.t
techno commercial bid shall be considered for evaluation & award of WO.

5.21
Bids which do not fulfill any of the above conditions or incomplete in any respect are liable for
rejection.
5.22 In case of parties covered under Micro, Small & Medium enterprises Dev. Act' 2006, all details
as required in the Act shall be furnished to KFL.
5.23
The bidder has to ensure to upload GST Tax invoice on the portal, while filing the GSTR within
the prescribed time limit. If bidder fails to do so without assigning any reason, the owner has
the right to claim the GST paid or the same can be recovered from the subsequent bill or any
amount liable to pay by owner from the bidder.

Annexure-2

General Terms & Conditions

1.0
Termination of Contract
1.1
Termination for Default
1.1.1
The Owner may without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of Contract terms &
conditions, by written notice of default send to the Supplier, terminate/cancel the Contract in
whole or in part:
a.
If the Supplier fails to complete any or all the jobs within the time period (s) specified in
the Contract, or
b.
If the Supplier fails to perform any other obligation (s) under the Contract.
c.
If the supplier, in either of the above circumstances does not rectify his failure within a
period of 30 days (or such longer period as the Owner may authorize in writing) after
receipt of the default notice from the Owner

1.1.2
In the event the Owner terminates the Contract in whole or in part, pursuant to above clause
the Owner may procure, upon such terms and in such manner as it deems appropriate Goods
similar to those undelivered and the Supplier shall be liable to the Owner for any excess costs
for such similar Goods. However, the supplier shall continue performance of the Contract to
the extent not terminated.

1.2
Termination for Insolvency
The Owner may at any time terminate the Contract by giving written notice to the Supplier,
without compensation to the Supplier, if the supplier becomes bankrupt or otherwise
insolvent, provided that such termination will not prejudice or affect any right of action or
remedy which has occurred or will occur thereafter to the Owner.

1.3
Termination of Convenience
1.3.1
The Owner may, by written notice send to the supplier, terminate the contract, in whole or in
part, at any time for his convenience. The notice of termination shall specify that termination
is for the Owner convenience, the extent to which performance of work under the contract is
termination and the date upon which such termination becomes effective.
1.0.1
The jobs that are completed and ready for handover within 20 days after the Supplier's receipt
of notice of termination shall be purchased by Owner at the Contract terms and Price. For the
remaining jobs, the Owner may opt:
a. To have any portion completed and delivered at the contract terms and Price; and/or.
b. To cancel the remainder and pay to the Supplier and agreed amount for partially
completed.

2.0
Statutory Compliances
1. KFL shall have no responsibility/liability of whatsoever nature in respect of the work
force engaged by you under this contract.
2. You shall comply with provision of various labour laws enacted by the Central/State
Govt. as amended time to time. All statutory requirements/ obligations there under
as may be applicable to the contract labour shall be adhered to by and any failure on
your part on this account shall be the sole responsibility of the contractor/you.
3. You shall abide by all rules, regulation, by-laws and statues, etc. imposed by the Govt.
and other local Authorities such as Municipality etc.
4. Any financial liability on account of non-observance/non-compliance of any statutory
requirements shall be the sole responsibility of contractor/your.

3.0
Statutory Obligations
a. You shall comply with all the relevant provisions of the various act and rules formed
thereunder relating to the “Employment of Contract Labour” by the Contractor, such as.
b. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Acts 1970 and rules framed there under.
c. The Workmen Compensation Act, 1923 and rules framed there under.
d. The Employees Provident Fund Act and Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952 and various
schemes there under.
e. The Minimum Wages Act, 1947 and Rules framed there under.
f. The Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services
Act, 1979).
g. The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 and Rules framed there under.

h. Applicable Acts to cover Statutory Bonus, Retrenchment Benefit and Accident Insurance.

i.
Any civil, criminal liability arising out of the non-compliance of the provisions of any Act or
Rules as applicable to the “Contract Labour” on account of the failure of the Contractor,
will be at the sole risk responsibility and cost of Contractor.

4.0
Settlement of Dispute and Arbitration
The Buyer/PURCHASER and the Bidder shall make every effort to resolve amicably by direct
informal negotiations any difference or dispute arising between them under or in connection
with the Purchase order.

If after thirty (30) days from the commencement of such informal negotiations, the Buyer/
PURCHASER and the Bidder have been unable to resolve amicably the dispute; either party
may require that the dispute be referred for resolution to the formal mechanisms as specified
hereunder:
a. Any dispute or differences whatsoever arising between the parties out of or relating to the
construction, meaning, scope, operation or effect of this contract or the validity or the
breach there of shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the provisions of “The
Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996” and the award made in pursuance thereof shall be
binding on the parties.
b. The performance under this contract shall not stop for any reason whatsoever during the
said dispute/proceedings, unless the contractor/supplier is specifically directed by
Buyer/buyer to desist from working in this behalf.
c. The venue of arbitration shall be Shahjahanpur.
d. The language of proceedings shall be English.
e. The Law governing the substantive issues between the parties shall be the Laws of India.
f.
In the event of any dispute or difference arising between KFL and the bidder hereto either
during the subsistence of this agreement or afterwards relating to this agreement, the
same shall be referred to the arbitration of a single arbitrator that is V.P. – Works, KFL
Shahjahanpur, whose decision shall be final and binding on both KFL and the bidder. The
arbitration proceeding shall be governed by the Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996. The
Arbitration & Conciliation (amendment bill 2015) or any further statutory modification or
re-enactment thereof and the rules made there under.

5.0
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
All actions at law or suits arising out of, or in connection with this order or the subject matter
thereof and whether as to construction or otherwise shall be instituted in a court of competent
jurisdiction in Shahjahanpur.
6.0
Force Majeure
Neither party hereto shall be responsible for any delay or failure to perform any or all of the
obligations imposed upon such part caused by Force Majeure. Force Majeure, shall mean
events outside the control of both the Party to the contract which impede the performance of
obligations of the parties and be limited to the following:
a. Any ward or hostilities
b. Any riot or civil commotion
c. Any earthquake, flood, tempest, lightening or other natural physical Disaster, impossibility
of the use of any railway, port, airport, Shipping service or other means of transport
d. Any strike or lockout (only those exceeding 10 continuous days in duration) affecting the
performance of the contractor/owner’s obligation, excluding the contractor labour strike.

7.0
Insurance
a) All Contractors equipment shall be at the sole risk of the Contractor.
b) The Contractor shall be responsible for workmen for compensation insurance and all
other statutory requirements in regards to its personnel engaged for the Execution of the
work under the work order.

8.0
Supervision
8.01
Contractor to ensure that the instructions of the site Engineer In charge of the work is faithfully
& promptly carried out. In case employee or any of their representatives indulge in any illegal/
unlawful activities or any misconduct, the contract may be terminated without any notice at
the risk & cost of the contractor.

9.0
Incoming /Outgoing Material
9.01
Contractor should make challan (movement document) for all incoming/outgoing materials
belonging to him including Tools & tackles & get the endorsement at materials gate by the
security force. This is to facilitate the engineer concerned to allow return of such material after
completion of the job. During the currency of the work contractor has to ensure safety of his
materials including tools & tackles.

10.0
Scope of Supply
10.01 Contractor shall make his own arrangement to carry out the job with his tool & tackle &
consumables etc. KFL shall supply the materials only in case it is specifically mentioned in the
contract. Contractor shall also make own arrangement for carrying the materials at site.
10.02 The owner will supply water and electricity, free of cost, as available in existing network if
execution of the Work requires supply of these facilities. Any further distribution of these
facilities in work areas shall be the responsibility of the Contractor and the same is to be
arranged by contractor at his own cost.
10.03 In case of emergency medical facility to the extent available shall be provided on payment of
usual charges.

11.0
Damages (Penalty)
11.01 For Delay
Time is the essence of the Work Order. In case of delay in the completion of the Work for
reasons attributable to the Owner, suitable time extension without imposing the damages
may be granted on request in writing. In case of delay in completion of the work for reasons
attributable to the contractor, a penalty shall be imposed @ Rs 0.5% per day subject to max.
5% of contract value, if work is not completed as per schedule. The owner shall recover such
damages from payment of the contractor on its occurrence. Acceptance of the delayed
completion in no way shall prejudice the rights of the Owner to recover the damages as
referred above, and shall not entitle the contractor for any claim of statutory levies that come
into force after expiry of the contract period.

11.02 In case of delay in the completion of the work, the Owner for the delayed completion shall pay
no compensation, whatsoever it may be, to the contractor.

12.0
Issue & Return of Materials
12.01 Unless until mentioned separately, the materials under KFL’s scope shall be issued to the
contractor on ‘free of charge basis subject to its reconciliation with final bill. The balance
material & the scrap generated out of KFL materials shall be returned to KFL’S stores after
completion of the work after issuance of materials all handling shall be in contractor’s scope.

13.0
Miscellaneous
a.
The rates agreed herein shall remain firm till the expiry of the contract period and
contractor shall not be entitled to any increase or revision (statutory or otherwise) or any
other right or claim whatsoever by way of representation, explanation or statement or
alleged representation or any undertaking or promise given or alleged to have been given
by any employee of the Company or due to contractors ignorance or on account of any
difficulties or hardships faced by him. Rates as such are all inclusive.
b.
Income Tax and any other taxes as prescribed shall be deducted from contractor’s bills as
per Income Tax Act under Section 194C or as applicable. Income Tax Deduction Certificate
shall be issued to contractor. Contractor has to submit photocopy of PAN No. along with
the invoice.

14.0
Quantity Variation
The quantities indicated in the Schedule of Rates are approximate only and may vary to any
extent. The rates/prices quoted by the Contractor shall remain firm throughout the Contract
Period including extended period if any. However, escalation if applicable with reference to the
contract provision will be payable extra for extended duration of contract and/or on amount
of Repeat work order.

15.0
Part / Split Rates
Any Work not done in accordance with the scope of work or specification of the contract shall
not be considered for payment. If all the activities relating to execution of the Work are not
completed, there shall not be any payment at part/split rates. The Work shall be certified for
payment at full item rates only when the same is executed as per specification without any
deviation/variation.

The quoted rates shall include and cover all costs, expenses and liabilities of every description
and all risk of every kind to be taken in executing, completing and handing over the Work to
the Owner.

16.0
To & fro, freight charge shall be in the scope of vendor.

Annexure-3

Scope of Work & Special Terms & Conditions: -

NIT for CEMS Cloud porter hosting annual subscription at KFL, Shahjahanpur (U.P.)

Scope of Work:

Online CEMS Data transmission to CPCB RTDMS portal through ADAGE cloud servers. The CEMS Data
is primarily being hosted in ADAGE cloud servers which is further being pushed to the CPCB RTDMS
portal as per the procedure laid down by CPCB. In view of the above an annual Cloud Portal Data
hosting required for following 03 nos of tag:- (1). "Effluent_PH (2). Effluent_Flow
(3). Effluent_ammonia" for CPCB RTDMS from 01.01.2026 to 31.12.2026.

Special Terms & Conditions
1.
This is mandatory to read the terms & conditions completely before sending the offer.
2.
In case any dispute, KFL site in charge to be consulted. All quality protocol will be checked by
KFL engineer.
3.
Contractor must ensure compliance of all govt./statutory requirement and safety system
required for execution of such work.
4.
Any deviation in quality will be decided at the level of HOD - Instruments

5.
The payment shall be made after successful completion of job against certified invoice by
KFL concerned Engineer/Officer in-charge within 30 days.
6.
A penalty shall be imposed @ Rs 0.5% per day subject to max. 5% of contract value, if work
is not completed as per schedule.

Annexure-4

Schedule of Rates (SOR)

Enquiry Reference Number: 6000/S005/GU/S005000197

(A) Job/Services Involved.

S N
Service
Code
Service Description
QTY
UOM
Rate/Unit
Rate In Words
Amount

CEMS Cloud Porter Hosting annual
charge

1
250510
Online CEMS Data transmission to
CPCB RTDMS portal through
ADAGE cloud servers. The CEMS Data
is primarily being hosted
in ADAGE cloud servers which is further
being pushed to the
CPCB RTDMS portal as per the
procedure laid down by CPCB. In
view of the above an annual Cloud Portal
Data hosting required
for following 03 nos of tag:- (1).
"Effluent_PH (2).
Effluent_Flow (3). Effluent_ammonia"
for CPCB RTDMS from
01.01.2026 to 31.12.2026.
1.000
YR

Tax 1

%

Tax 2

%

Tax 3

%

Total Value (Rs.)

Total Value (In Words.)

48000.00
48000.00
56640.00
8640.00
Fifty Six Thousand Six Hundred and Forty Rupees Only

Forty-Eight
Thousand Rupees