Quotation Number: 2509W184
BOQ Status: FOUND

O2: An oxygen value that is too low indicates that all the fuel may not be burning correctly, and that you are
therefore wasting energy. An oxygen value that is too high indicates that it is possible to increase fuel input and
raw material input and therefore increase production.
Challenges:-
Gas analyzer equipment in cement works must be able to withstand a
very tough environment:-
 High gas temperature up to 1400 Deg C
 High dust concentration up to 2000 g/m3
 High content of Alkalis, Sulfates and Chlorides
 In addition, high level of mechanical stress and strain
 Usual Complaint of wrong O2 reading due to False Air
 Use of pet coke as fuel (with High Sulphur content) / Alternate Fuels
Resource(AFR’s)
Conventional gas sampling systems with water cooling have a number of serious
weak points:
 they block up easily because of the condensation that forms due to the low
operating temperature
 lime deposits and corrosion with water as coolant
 caking of material on the probe causes excessive mechanical stress
 High cost for maintenance and low reliability
The problems with the gas analysis in cement rotary kilns can be minimized or
eliminated by using our patented gas sampling system
 Caking of material on the probe
Minor deposits are removed during regular automatic retraction by air blasting of
probe with compressed air.
 High maintenance costs
Thanks to the high operating temperature and the effective method of cleaning
our system can achieve periods of maintenance free operation up to three
months
The Problem & Our Solution
Highlights for Improved components:
➢ The SS Filter with KAS Probe Head
Actual Site Photos of Filter and Probe Head
Conditions after 30 days of operation

Easy to Open and Maintain -
Reduced Time and ease of maintenance.

No Special Tools needed to dismantle the Filter -
Reduced Time and ease of maintenance.

No Glass Wool Gaskets Necessary -
Reduced Inventory

Old Filter is of 135 mm Length. New Filter of 250 mm length
Increased surface area. More sampling time... Increased
availability

Filter of Sintered SS... Having more retention of Particles
Increased Filtration

Filter Easy To Clean with long Life
Reduced Inventory...
Reduced Down Time....
Conventional Probe Head
Advanced Probe Head KAS 9002
➢ Counter Flange with Scrapper
High dust accumulation on the probe
New Modified Counter Flange with Scrapper & Air Blaster for Heavy Dust load
➢ Kiln Inlet Probe
 Straight Tube Design
 Higher Thickness for Probe
 Superior Internal reinforcement to withstand bending
 External Probe Surface Cleaning
 Internal Probe tube back purge
New Modified Kiln Inlet Probe
➢ The New Retraction System with Dual-Chain
Advantages and Benefits
 In Case we have a Single Chain System, the Centre
of Gravity is always on one Side.
 This doesn't transfer the total power in the retraction
motor to extract the Probe.. As a result the Probe may
get bent.
 This also ensures long life of the retraction System
 It also gives a Redundancy.
New Design PC Based Retraction
Single Chain Retraction
 What we Offer as a package for maintenance free Gas Analysis System.
 Additional Features to eliminate Probe Choke and Probe getting Clogged inside.
 Additional Features to eliminate Sulphur to prolong the life of Gas analyzers and also for accurate
reading
New IGUS Chain for
Flexible movement
Probe Blaster for
Purging of Probe Tube
SO2 Scrubber
The Advanced KAS Probe with Additional Features.
PROBLEMS FACED WITH THE CONVENTIONAL WATER CIRCUIT:-
 Deposition on the Probe
 Probe Withdrawal due to Pressure Fault.
 Addition Of Makeup Water Daily
 Probe Getting bent
NEW PROBE CONDITIONING UNIT:-
 Volume of water Circulated is more
-
Better Cooling
 Use Of Water Tank. With the addition of additives with the water the Temperature of the circulating
liquid can be increased.
-
No requirement of make-up water every day. Higher Temp
 Pressure Fault due to temperature difference (inside the Kiln and out Side the Kiln)
-
Pressure Fault thing of the Past.
 Water Can be circulated at Higher Temperature
-
Deposit over the probe doesn't solidify
 Since there is always a buffered volume- there is no need of the pressure signal- therefore no
withdrawal of the Probe due to pressure fault.
-
Reduced Maintenance
 Eliminates water being inside the Analyzer room making the total thing easy to maintain.
-
Reduced Maintenance
The New, Advance & Efficient Probe Conditioning Unit
Section 1:
