Quotation Number: SQ2501N010R1
BOQ Status: FOUND

office and accommodations quarters in nearby areas, and all other factors and facilities
necessary or relevant for the preparation of the bid for the performance of the work
including supply of materials and / or labour (wherever applicable). No increase in price or
other changes to his bid shall be accepted by the Owner due to the bidder’s lack of
information about the work, site, availability of facilities, etc.
5.16
The bid received shall be evaluated on the basis of all the SOR items & considering all taxes
duties & other charges indicated in the bids. In case any bidder does not quote for any item
of SOR the evaluation shall be made considering the higher rates received from the other
bidders against the same SOR item for arriving at the status of bidder. The lowest rate from
the other bidders shall be considered on discretion of KFL.
5.17
The bidder shall not be entitled to claim any costs, charges, expenses for or incidental to in
connection with preparation and submission and subsequent clarification of his tender even
if Owner decides to withdraw the invitation to tender or the tender is rejected on any count.
5.18
The bid documents and all other documents attached to it, shall remain the property of the
owner. These document are transmitted to the bidders solely for the purpose of preparation
and submission of bid in accordance with the work requirement. The bidder shall keep these
documents as confidential & shall not disclose / release the content either in full or any part
thereof to the a third party.
5.19
All communication and correspondence with respect to this enquiry shall be addressed to:
Addl. Manager -Purchase
Kribhco Fertilizers Limited.
Village & Post Office: Piprola Shahjahanpur – 242001 Uttar Pradesh (India)
Ph No. 05842-262246 Email: skgarg@kfl.net.in, rkagarwal@kfl.net.in
5.20
The bidder should indicate the deviation if any & submit the same with bid. Bidders should
neither indicate any commercial condition nor should indicate any charges levies, in the price
bid / SOR item of NIT. In case it is observed that SOR / Price bid includes any terms which is
not in line with techno commercial requirement of NIT or subsequent confirmation sought/
received at later date (before opening of Price bid), the subsequent confirmation given w.r.t
techno commercial bid shall be considered for evaluation & award of WO.
5.21
Bids which do not fulfill any of the above conditions or incomplete in any respect are liable
for rejection.
5.22 In case of parties covered under Micro, Small & Medium enterprises Dev. Act' 2006, all
details as required in the Act shall be furnished to KFL.
5.23
The bidder has to ensure to upload GST Tax invoice on the portal, while filing the GSTR
within the prescribed time limit. If bidder fails to do so without assigning any reason, the
owner has the right to claim the GST paid or the same can be recovered from the subsequent
bill or any amount liable to pay by owner from the bidder.
Annexure-2
