HPCL ATC
Clause mentioned in this HPCL ATC will Supersede GEM GTC clause
This tender is floated for TA DHT/NHGU-ROPE-2026

As this procurement is for expert services from M/s Adage who is the authorised service provider
for Ametek, Teledyne, Icon Scientific and Process Insights (Guidedwave, Cosa-Xentaur, AIT
make),PAC, ANTEK analysers installed at various units at HPCL MR. Bids received from any other
service provider will be rejected.
RM/PBG: Not Applicable.
Price Reduction Clause for delayed delivery: NOT APPLICABLE
Payment Terms:

a) Payment as per HPCL GTC against submission of Running bills -
complete Delivery/ Tax Invoices/Site Reports/ Supporting Documents etc.
as per PO terms and conditions, to the satisfaction of HPCL Engineer
in-charge.

b) This is a rate contract valid for 2 years. Quantities mentioned for
line items may or may not get consumed. Utilization of these line items
is on need basis on the discretion of HPCL.

c) All invoices should be submitted in original, complete with VIT
registration acknowledgement to HPCL Finance. Copy of invoice along with
VIT registration, original challans, gate passes and certified service
reports/measurement sheets to be submitted to HPCL EIC for receipt.

Link for making HPCL VIT entry: Please log on with your HPCL vendor
registration details on the following link:
http://vss.hpcl.co.in/

Security deposit: Applicable 2% of total PO value.
NOTES TO VENDOR:

•
This tender is for PROC FOR ADAGE SUPERVISORY SERVICES ANALYSERS/INSTRUMENTS
(Standing Order for 2 years AMC - Expert Services)
•
Supplier scope:
a) To depute Engineer having technical expertise in Ametek, Teledyne,
Icon Scientific and Process Insights (Guidedwave, Cosa-Xentaur, AIT
make), PAC, ANTEK analysers with hands on knowledge on supplied
instrumentation package, attend system emergencies /breakdown / failures
pertaining to analysers at HPCL Mumbai Refinery.
Note: Any other make of analysers/instruments for which Adage is
authorised or capable of providing service shall be considered in this.

b) Checking of the existing analysers & readings validation ,
carrying out validation, troubleshooting in case of failures and resolve
the issue OR arrange for remote support with the analyzers principle

c)Vendor shall do calibration of analyzers as per HPCL requirement.

KINDLY REFER DEVIATION SHEET
OFFER NO:SQ2512W335 DTD:16-12-2025

d) Suggest corrections/improvement/ modification as per site conditions
for analyzers.
e) Service Engineer shall carry our necessary job as per system
requirement to bring back the system to proper functionality.

f) Vendor shall arrange for all tools , tackles, equipment , laptop with
required software etc., required for executing the job.

g) Make detail MOM on activities carried out during such visits.

h) Man day charges includes travel time if any, to & fro changes
from place of origin, boarding & lodging & local Conveyance.

i) HPCL shall stock consumables and spares of complete system as advised
by vendor. List of minimum spares and consumables to be stocked by HPCL
will be provided by vendor.

j) Vendor to depute engineer at HPCL-MR site within 48 hours of written
intimation from HPCL-EIC
Supplier to quote:

Supplier shall quote as per order unit of item.
CANCELLATION / RISK PURCHASE CLAUSE:
a. The Corporation reserves the right to cancel this purchase order or any part thereof and
shall be entitled to rescind the contract wholly or in part with a written notice to the vendor if:
i. The vendor fails to comply with the terms of this purchase order.
ii. The vendor fails to deliver the goods on time and / or replace the rejected goods promptly.
iii. The Vendor becomes bankrupt or goes into liquidation.
iv. The vendor makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
v. A receiver is appointed for any of the property owned by the vendor.
b. Upon receipt of the said cancellation notice, the vendor shall discontinue all work on the
Purchase Order and matters connected with it. The vendor is aware that the said goods are
required by the Corporation for the ultimate purpose of materials production and that non
delivery may cause loss of production and consequently loss of profit to the Corporation.
c. Therefore, in case of Termination of the contract, Corporation shall have the right to carry
out the unexecuted portion of the supply/work either by themselves or through any other
vendor(s)/contractor(s) at the risk and cost of the vendor/ contractor. In view of paucity of
time, Corporation shall have the right to place such unexecuted portion of the supply/work on
any nominated vendor(s)/contractor(s). However, the overall liability of the
vendor/Contractor shall be restricted to 100% of the total contract value.
d. The provision of this clause shall not prejudice the right of the Corporation from invoking
the provisions of clause “Delayed Delivery” as a fore said.
•
Vendor shall contact the following personnel/Department for any queries:
Technical Enquiry:
A. Mr SURESH KUMAR , General Manager - Maintenance, Ph: 022-25077007, Email:
sureshkumar@hpcl.in
B. Mr SARKAR PRASUN, Senior Manager - Maintenance(Instrumentation), Ph: 022-65396925, Email:
prasunsarkar@hpcl.in

Commercial Enquiry (including information on GST/ GSTIN / PAN no)
A. Mr Bharat P Barve, DGM -Purchase, Ph: 022-65397033, Email: bpbarve@hpcl.in

Finance officers for Payment/Form-C/GST issues related query:
Address for sending Original Invoice (in case Invoice is not digitally signed): Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. Ltd., Integrated Financial Services (IFS), Priyadarshini Building, 2nd & 3rd Floor,
Eastern Express Highway, Sion, Mumbai – 400 022, Maharashtra. Contact details at IFS:
Contact Details:
1. Vendor helpdesk: Saarthi & eSamadhaan in VSS Portal 022- 24068201/901, E mail:
vendorhelpdesk_ss@mail.hpcl.co.in
2. BG Cell: bgifs@mail.hpcl.co.in
3. GST Mismatch: hpclgstmismatch1@mail.hpcl.co.in

Commercial Enquiry:
Mrs.
Madhu
Shalini,Assistant
Manager-Materials,
Phone:
22038673,
Email:
Madhu.shalini@hpcl.in

•
Enquiry related to change in address / contact nos.:
Mr. Vaibhav Singh, Ch. Manager-Vendor Management, Ext: 022-65396431, Email:
vaibhavsingh1@hpcl.in

Gate Entry Procedure for Vendor Information and Compliance:

Step 1: After reaching at main gate of Mumbai Refinery, Vendor shall go to respective pass
section and call the following persons for entry permission:
Warehouse Receiving Section - Ph: 022-6539 6817/6818/6816
Material IGP (In Gate Pass) will be prepared by pass section after documents (invoice, challan,
LP copy etc.) are presented to the personnel.
Visitor IGP (In Gate Pass) will be prepared by pass section after providing mobile no. and sr. no.
of SWAGAT request put up by concerned personnel.

Step 2
• Security Check of Vehicle, Material & Personnel
• Following shall be checked by CISF Constable at the gate before the entry Vehicle registration
details, PUC & Vehicle Documents Original Driving License of Driver and ID proof of helper /
cleaner / visitor In case of doubt, any other ID proof can also be asked
• Fire Extinguisher, Spark Arrester, Stepney etc. should be mandatorily present inside the
vehicle without which entry in Refinery will not be permitted
• All visiting personnel (including driver & cleaner) should have Helmet, Gloves & Safety Shoes
for entry inside Refinery.

Step 3: Final verification by Security Shift In-charge

All other terms and conditions which are not mentioned here shall be as per GeM
GTC.
1. Price Bid: -
Vendors to quote Prices only in Price Bids

Vendors to fill-up following details (a & b) and attached with un-priced bids
a. Contact Details:

Vendor Name

Name & Designation of the Contact Person

Contact Number of person (Mobile )

Email -ID

PAN No.
(Pls Attach PAN Copy along with Bid)

GSTIN Number
(Pls Attach GSTIN Certificate Copy along with
Bid)

Applicable GST% included in your quoted
price

b. Vendor declaration
Mr. Vishnu Birmole / AGM-CRM
ADAGE AUTOMATION PRIVATE LIMITED
Ext: 08326620562; Mob no: 9987538932
vishnu@adage-automation.com
AADCA1647D
30AADCA1647D1ZF
18%

As follows:

Vendor’s Declaration
The Terms & conditions mentioned in the Price Enquiry, mentioned above, are
acceptable to us. We have submitted our offer accordingly.

Technical/Commercial deviations:

We have NOT taken any deviation and we will supply the materials as per the
details mentioned in Price Enquiry, mentioned above, in to.

We have taken certain technical/commercial deviations, which have been listed
by us, separately.

Declaration regarding ban / delisting:

We, hereby, declare that we have NOT been banned or de-listed by any
government or quasi-government agencies or PSUs.

We, have been banned or de-listed by the following government / quasi-
government agencies / PSU:

•
(In case this declaration is not given your offer will be considered as non-responsive and
is liable for rejection)

(Signature & Stamp of the Authorized
Signatory)
•
(Please put ‘√’,
whichever is
applicable & put
‘x’, whichever is
not applicable)

(Name & Designation of the Authorized
Signatory)

(Phone Number)

(Mobile Number)

(Fax Number)
Mob no: 9987538932
Ext: 08326620562;
Fax: 0832-6620599
Mr. Vishnu Birmole / AGM-CRM

(e-mail id)

vishnu@adage-automation.com