Quotation Number: SQ2512W324
BOQ Status: FOUND

(Adage-Mumbai)
PART A: SUMMARY OF PRICES
Sr.No Item Description
Qty
Unit
Rate
Amount
1 Analyser Commissioning services
5 DAY
₹ 45,000.00
₹ 2,25,000.00
2 To and Fro air fare for one person
1 EA
At Actual
3 Lodging & Boarding charges
1 DAY
At Actual
4 To and Fro local for airport & hotel & airport,
Hotel & site & Hotel
1 EA
At Actual
SPECIAL NOTE:
1. GST Shall be charged extra as applicable. Presently @ 18%.
2. Any modification, mechanical and civil work required during the contact period and lifting & shifting of
material shall be in customer scope.
3. Working time shall be as per industrial norms. i.e., 8 hrs. per Man Day.
4. Service Engineer will be visit on site after getting service request email from HAI within min 3 working
man days.
5. Lodging, Boarding, to and fro charges shall be claim at actual or same shall be arrange by HAL.
6. All types of spares (consumables/mandatory/operational/critical) shall be in HAL scope.
7. Quoted offer consist of maintenance service only, it is not applicable for any types of training.
8. Non arrangement of gate pass during the site visit shall be consider full man day and claim as per
man day rate.
9. Non signing of MOM shall not be accepted, in the event of non-signing of MOM Adage will consider
first date from date of Adage engineer started from Adage Goa works and site end date when the
Adage engineer return to Adage Goa works.
10. Any types of Specific training is required for HAL site visit then same shall be in HAL scope of work.
HAL SCOPE:
1. All types of required spares.
2. Site Safety / Work Height Permit / or any other training arrangement.
3. Issue of necessary work permit / gate passes for carrying out the job as per HAL rules and
Regulations.
4. HAL shall provide additional manpower / equipment required time to time for shifting of heavy
Materials or any major modification of the existing system.
5. Scaffolding requirement for work at height will be arranged by HAL.
6. Required calibration and carrier gas cylinder refilling.
7. Other instruments in analyser shelter/Field cabinet like HVAC/AC, HVAC/AC PLC, Fire and Gas
Detection system, Fire and Gas safety equipment’s, shelter PC and Printers maintenance will be
Under HAL scope. However, Adage site engineer will be check and intimate HAL for necessary
Repair and maintenance job requirements time to time.
ADAGE SCOPE:
1. Site Visit Reports.
2. Calibration Reports.
3. Required spare parts List with part numbers.
