Quotation Number: Q25N10086
BOQ Status: FOUND

A unique measuring instrument, the analyser is extremely versatile and can be
readily re-programmed in the field. It provides accurate measurements on the many
petroleum products that have colour as part of their specification, and can be used
to duplicate a range of standard visual colour comparison tests dealing with light
and dark samples. Delivering exceptional results, the analyser enables you to
measure contamination, purity, or clarity of a liquid. It is also very good at detecting
dye colour and product contamination in pipeline applications.
How does it work?
The analyser uses visible light produced by a 12V tungsten halogen lamp running
under reduced voltage to increase its lifetime. Light passes out of the analyser
enclosure through an optical window and is guided along a fibre-optic cable to an
external measuring cell. The light enters the cell through another window fitted with
a focusing lens. It then passes through the test sample and out via a further window
and fibre-optic cable. It travels back into the enclosure to the dispersive
spectrometer module, where the optical transmission or absorbance measurements
are carried out. These measurements are fed into a control computer which
calculates the final results according to the method(s) selected.
Why choose the Icon Scientific
Colour/Opacity Analyser?
Full-spectrum analysis: with measurements over the full visible-light spectrum
allows for precise colour detection and complex multi-product interfacing even
when the peak absorption wavelength varies (ASTM colour, Red/Green dyes, etc).
Excellent stability: to compensate for drift and dirt build-up on the cell windows, all
measurements are carried out using one or more reference wavelengths.
Dual method analysis: the analyser can perform up to two simultaneous
measurements as standard. These could include any combination of colour,
opacity, concentration, or product interfacing measurements.
Versatile measurements: with a range of inbuilt detection and calculation
algorithms to choose from to ensure the best match to any required application.
Remote cell mounting: extended fibre optic cables allow the separation of
measuring cell and controller if required.
Standard SMA connectors: a range of third-party transmittance and reflectance-
measuring cells can be used in addition to the standard Icon transmittance cells.
Icon Scientific Colour Opacity Analyser Brochure - V06 (Jul-2021)
Sample Requirements
Inlet Temperature
Maximum 200°C (390°F)
Inlet Pressure
Maximum 100 bar (1450 psi)
Outlet Pressure
Can be returned to pressure, provided
minimum flow requirement is achieved.
Sample Flow
(continuous)
Minimum 6 L/H
Maximum 30 L/H
Filtration
Filtration generally not required.
Water Content
Sample should be ‘clear and bright’ at
room temperature, bubble free, and
contain no free water.
Utility Requirements
Instrument Air
Not Required.
Coolant
Not Required.
Power
115-230VAC 50-60Hz, Max 75VA
Installation Requirements
Location
Unit must be located out of direct wind
sun and rain.
Ambient Temperature
+5 to +45 °C
Ambient Humidity
0-95% RH, non-condensing.
Remote Flowcell
Analyser can be optionally supplied
with loose flowcell and extended fibre
optic cables for remote installation in
3rd party sampling system.
Control System
Control System
Based on fan-less industrial PC with
solid state hard drive.
Graphical User Interface (GUI)
10.5” armoured glass touch-screen.
The GUI is used to program the unit
and display current and historical
analyser results and alarm status.
Language
User-selectable multilingual display.
Certification
Hazardous Area Certification
Exd certified to ATEX, IECEx, UKEx,
and EACEx standards, suitable for
zone 1 or zone 2 use with gas group
and T-rating of IIB+H2 T6.
It is also ETL listed for the USA and
Canada Class 1, Div 1, groups B,C,D.
IP Ratings
Tested and certified to IP66/IP67 (dust
tight and protected from temporary
total immersion in water).
Specification
Applications & Measuring Ranges
(output freely adjustable within range)
ASTM D1500 (0 to 8 ASTM)
ASTM D156 (+30 to -16 Saybolt)
ASTM D1209 (Hazen / PtCo)
Colour concentrations
Dosing applications
Multi-product identification
Other – contact Icon for details
Measuring Cell Pathlength
Standard flowcell pathlengths are:
10mm (ASTM D1500)
100mm (Saybolt D156)
Other – contact Icon for details
(e.g.: 1mm, 60mm, etc)
Repeatability
ASTM Colour ≤0.2, (typically <0.03)
Saybolt Colour ≤1.0, (typically <0.15)
Other – contact Icon for details
Cycle Time
Continuous output.
Multiple Methods
Up to 2 simultaneous measurement
methods based on: linear interpolation
of calibration curves, multi-wavelength
regression calculations based on
absorbance or transmittance at single
or multiple wavelengths, peak area
integration, opacity or transmission
measurements, etc.
Light Source
10W tungsten halogen lamp
(lifetime > 7000 hr)
Spectrometer
Full range: 360-1100 nm
Inputs/Outputs
Analog Outputs
1 x 4-20mA isolated output (active or
passive) is provided as standard.
Second output available as option.
Alarms
The analyser provides changeover
alarm contacts for the following
conditions:
•
Result 1 high / low level alarm
•
Result 2 high / low level alarm
•
Spectrometer fault alarm
•
Bulb fail / low light
transmission alarm
•
Analyser online / offline
(run / standby mode)
All contact ratings are
24VDC 0.5A, 230VAC 1A
Communications
Modbus RTU or OPC over RS485 or
Ethernet (TCP/IP), with optional fiber
optics. Optional OPC server software.
Icon Scientific Colour Opacity Analyser Brochure - V06 (Jul-2021)
Note: Icon Scientific products are subject to a program of continuous development and improvement and specifications are liable to change without notice.
Please check that you have the latest information available before relying on any specification.
Dimensions & Weights
Notes:
All dimensions in mm
Unpacked weight approx. 103kg
Packed weight approx. 165kg
