Quotation Number: SQ2603G019
BOQ Status: FOUND

build quality whilst ensuring we operate in a safe and environmentally conscious way.
Adage offers complete project management services from conceptual design through pre-tender feed
study, design approval, detailed engineering, project management, procurement activities, production ,
testing and commissioning, site survey, site installation, handing over as well as after sales service and
training. We offer a 24/7 technical helpline and call out facility to many of our customers.
Adage is also, one of the fastest growing Gas Analytical Company in the world with 25% CAGR over last 10
years and presently growing by 200% in every 2 years.
With large project engineering capability, widest product portfolio and presence in multiple countries,
Adage have an Unique identity in the Global perspective for the Gas Analytical domain.
Ref: SQ2603G019
Date: 11-03-2026
Adage have been awarded in 2018 by the Ministry of MSME & Industries, Govt of India as one of the
India’s Small Giants, which is an initiative to recognize the top performing companies in terms of
sustainable growth and innovations.
We sincerely look forward to be associated with your esteemed Organization and shall be glad to provide
all round assistance in providing spare parts, services and support and Annual Maintenance Contracts for
your various Gas Analytical installations.
Thanking you and assuring you our best services and attention at all times.
Yours faithfully,
For Adage Automation Pvt. Limited
Satya Prakash Dhaked
Ashutosh Shende
dhaked@adage-automation.com ashutosh@adage-automation.com
Mob: +91 9234146689 Mob: +91 90963 12604
ADAGE- GOA ADAGE- MUMBAI
Ref: SQ2603G019
Date: 11-03-2026
TECHNICAL SCOPE
CAMC FOR CV GAS ANALYSER HBI MOD 5-6: 1 No.
A. Maintenance of Analyser & Systems shall include the following;
M/s Adage Engineer will check the following during Routine Maintenance visits.
1. Functioning of all system and sub-system of analyser, e.g. pumps, probes, filters, sensors, main
analyser, power supplies etc.
2. Preventive maintenance of probes.
3. Flushing & cleaning of the sample lines, leak checks, temperature and suction levels etc.
4. Preventive maintenance of Sample Handling System including filters, internal tubes etc. Back
purging of the filters will be done as recommended in schedule (Whichever is earlier) depending
upon requirement.
5. To monitor any corrosion and take suitable measures to prevent them. In order to avoid corrosion
to probes and other parts of the system, it would require routine inspection.
6. Functioning of all the accessories connected with the system will be checked.
7. Functional checking and calibration of the total system.
8. The systems shall be operated and maintained on regular basis.
9. Checking the healthiness of such as PLC's, Panel views etc. connected with the system.
10. Calibration of the analysers with the help of suitable standard gases of appropriate range and duly
certified.
11. Verify room environment and report to m/s AM/NS. for doing the needful, if needed.
12. Engaged Maintenance Engineer will submit all functional reports to incharge who will consult
periodically with Designated Person of Operating/instrument Department.
Ref: SQ2603G019
Date: 11-03-2026
13. The maintenance data collected during these regular visits will be suitably plotted in the OEM
maintenance Charts to forecast preventive & breakdown maintenance as well as replacement.
14. Calibration cells/Gases pressure required for calibration of Analysers will be monitored regularly.
These will be replaced by m/s AM/NS before the pressure drops from below designed pressure or
before the expiry. Required calibration gas cylinder shall be arrange by m/s AM/NS
15. The spares required for - repairing as well as consumables required for normal
operation/maintenance of the systems shall be in scope of m/s Adage.
16. Working time shall be as per industrial norms i.e. 8 hrs. per day.
I. Exclusions to the CAMC Agreement:
A) Exclusions -The CAMC does not include the following:
❖
Repair of damage resulting from accident, neglect or misuse (including absence of voltage
protection), environmental stresses including dust/water/ storm or any cause other than ordinary
use.
❖
Performing service in connection with relocation of machines or adding or removing accessories,
devices or addition of cards & other peripheral devices.
❖
Electrical /other work external to system & other devices not covered by this agreement.
❖
Required spare part critical/ consumable and calibration gas shall be in scope of m/s Adage.
❖
Incase of supporting manpower required for house keeping and other mechanical & electrical
work shall be arrange by m/s AM/NS scope.
❖
Lifting, Shifting of material shall be in AM/NS Scope.
C) Care of equipment
M/s AM/NS shall give full access to the equipment to enable the m/s Adage to provide maintenance
services & make available to their representative, appropriate personnel from the m/s AM/NS who
are familiar with plant & provide suitable working space & facilities as well as storage space for
keeping of maintenance equipment & spare if the need arises.
Ref: SQ2603G019
Date: 11-03-2026
SUMMARY OF PRICES
SR. No
Services for line Item
Quantity UOM
Unit rate
Total PO Value
1
CAMC FOR ONLINE CV GAS ANALYZER HBI
MOD 5-6 - 1 NO.
Price shall be considered below:
1. Quarterly preventive maintenance
visit.
2. Emergency visit.
3. Local transportation.
4. Lodging & boarding for service
engineer.
5. To & fro Charges for service engineer.
6. Backup support from Adage
Automation.
4
Qtr.
Rs. 2,87,500.00
Rs. 11,50,000.00
Ref: SQ2603G019
Date: 11-03-2026
