Rev 0

8.4 - COMPLIANCE TO BID REQUIREMENTS DEVIATION SHEET
(To be filled, signed, sealed and submitted)

Tender No. /GeM Bid No. Date:

We confirm that our offer complies with the tender conditions (or) the requirements of the
Tender Document without any exception or deviation. Our Offer submitted is nil deviation offer.
(OR)
Bidder may stipulate exceptions and deviations to the tender document, if considered
unavoidable as per the following format,

Sl.
No.
Reference Clause
of Tender
Document
CPCL's Tender Condition
Bidder's Deviation
TECHNICAL

COMMERCIAL

Note:
1. All exceptions/deviations taken by the Bidder to the stipulations of the tender document
shall be brought out strictly as per the above format. Any exceptions/deviations brought out
elsewhere in the bid shall not be construed as valid.
2. If the above table is left blank (unfilled), it will be construed that the bidder has not taken
any deviation to this tender.

“Bidder have fully read and understood the tender requirements and accepts all terms and
conditions of the tender (except for the ones mentioned in the deviation statement) and the
submitted offer is in conformity with all terms of tender”

_______________________
(Sign and stamp of bidder)

134/197
GEM/2025/B/6516689
20.08.2025
1
Annexure-IIIA
Model: Residue
Quoted Analyser cannot offer a model for
residue. Consider this as a deviation for the
same.
1
Annexure-1
15. PAYMENT TERMS:
75% - Delivery of analyser System at site
10% - After Complete System Installation
10% - Model building, Commissioning
SAT/PGTR and System Handing over
2.5% - payable after successful completion
of 1st year extended warranty
2.5% - payable after successful completion
of 2nd year extended warranty
80% - Delivery of analyser System at site
10% - After Complete System Installation or 4 months
from date of receipt of material at site whichever is
earlier.
10% - Model building, Commissioning, SAT/PGTR and
System Handing over or 8 months from date of receipt of
material , site whichever is earlier.

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
Dear Sir/Madam,

With reference to the Tender no. GEM/2025/B/6516689. Please find enclosed our quotation for
design, engineering, manufacture and Supply of analyzer system which includes analysers as per your
requirement.

TECHNICAL OFFER

ADAGE QUOTE REF:
Q24S10070_Tender
DATED : 26.08.2025
BID TYPE : Tender
PROJECT TITLE:
Supply of Dual Stream MS -NIR Analyser at CPCL refinery.
INQUIRY DETAILS:
GEM Tender No: GEM/2025/B/6516689

CUSTOMER:

Kind Attention : Mr. N.Sakthivel
CHENNAI PETROLEUM CORPORATION LTD.

END USER:

CHENNAI PETROLEUM CORPORATION LTD.

We are pleased to submit proposal for the analyser system along with a brief introduction about our
company.

The contents are as follows:

Section-1: Scope of supply
Section-2: Scope of services
Section-3: Summary of prices
Section-4: Technical Litreature
Section-5: Responsibility matrix
Section-6: Commercial terms & conditions

Kindly review and do let us know if you have any queries

Kind Regards

Mr. Pravin. S (Regional Sales) Mr. Sanjit Sardessai (ACMG)
ADAGE AUTOMATION PVT LIMITED ADAGE AUTOMATION PVT LIMITED
Mob: +91 9629393373

sanjit@adage-automation.com
pravin@adage-automation.com

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
Introduction to ADAGE AUTOMATION – Leading Provider of Gas Analytical Solutions.

In reference to your requirement for Gas Analytical Solutions, we would like to take this opportunity to
briefly introduce our organization.

ADAGE AUTOMATION is a global leader in providing Continuous Gas Analytical Systems and Solutions.
Our expertise spans across applications in Process Monitoring, Emission Monitoring, and Safety for
various industrial sectors including Oil & Gas, Steel, Cement, Power, Fertilizers, and Chemicals.
We hold a leadership position in India in terms of business volume and infrastructure. Our strong presence
includes:
•
16 offices across India
•
Three overseas subsidiaries in New Jersey (USA), Abu Dhabi (UAE), and Jubail (Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia)
•
A team of over 300 professionals, including 200+ specialist engineers
•
A state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Goa, which is currently the world’s largest Gas
Analytical Systems Integration (SI) facility

To date, we have successfully installed over 5,000 Analyzer Systems both in India and across the globe.
We would be delighted to explore how ADAGE can support your gas analytics needs with our proven
capabilities, global footprint, and commitment to innovation and quality.
Looking forward to the opportunity to collaborate.

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
SECTION 1: SCOPE OF SUPPLY

1. 1 x DG NIR analyser system consisting of PC with Software, Stability monitoring system, FO Cable,
Flow Cell, Sample Probe, Redundant Fast loop pump Skid, Sample Tubing, Rrecovery Tank, etc..
2. 1 Lot x Mandatory Spares.
3. 1 Lot Commissiong Spares
4. 1 Set x Documentation.

SECTION 2: SCOPE OF SERVICES

1. Engineering, Integration of DG NIR analyser system customized to the proccess data sheet.
2. FAT, Inspection and Training
3. Packing and Forwarding
4. Site Supervision for installation, commissioning & training.
5. Start up and commissioning services, PGTR for 5 months & Model building
6. SAT & handover.
7. Services during 2 years warranty & PWCAMC for 6 years.

SECTION 3: SUMMARY OF PRICES

Sr. No.
Item Description
Qty
Unit Price(INR)
Total Price(INR)
1
NIR – O Analyser System
1 Set
Quoted
Quoted
2
Supervision of I & C and Modelling including PGTR
Total Duration 5 Months for the above activities
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
3
Modelling Services-First Month
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
4
Modelling Services-Second Month
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
5
Modelling Services-Third Month
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
6
Modelling Services-Fourth Month
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
7
Modelling Services-Fifth Month
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
8
PWCAMC Charges for 1st year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
9
PWCAMC Charges for 2nd year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
10
PWCAMC Charges for 3rd year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
11
PWCAMC Charges for 4th year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
12
PWCAMC Charges for 5th year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted
13
PWCAMC Charges for 6th year
1 Lot
Quoted
Quoted

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
SECTION 4: TECHNICAL LITERATURE

1
NIR – O Analyzer
Model: NIR-O
Make: Process Insights (Guided Wave)
Hazardous Area Classification: X-Purge Zone 1, IIB+H2
Mounting Location: Inside cabinet in existing Shelter

1 Set
Quoted
1.1
Dual Beam NIR O analyzer.
Area Classification: Certified, X- Purge, Zone 1 IIB+H2
Controller (solid state) included Installed inside analyzer housing;
ATEX Certified
Number of Channels: 6
Range: XNIR (1000-2100 nm)
Power Supply: 110 VAC
Temperature Management System
Communication protocol: Modbus TCP/IP included

Utility Details Required for Analyzer:
110 VAC UPS: 2000 Watts
Instrument air @5-6 kg/cm2g (Oil & water drop free)

1 No.
Included
1.2
Software – OmniView
Analyzer control software
Pre-Installed on NIR-O controller

1 No.
Included
1.3
Software – Solo Predictor
Prediction Engine for calibration models developed in Solo.
No method development software
Pre-Installed on NIR-O controller

1 No.
Included
1.4
Stability Monitoring System
According to ASTM D6122
Includes validation standard
Installed inside NIR-O analyzer
Uses one channel of NIR-O

1 No.
Included
1.5
Ultra-Low OH Fiber Optic Cable
Fiber Length: 10 meters
Core Material: Fused Silica
Core Diameter: 500 micron
Connectors: SMA/SMA
Termination fee included.

4 Nos.
Included

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
1.6
Multi-Purpose Flow Cell (MPFC)
Body Material: 316L Stainless Steel
Optical Path Length: 10 mm
Range: VIS/NIR (400-2100 nm)
Max. Temperature: 300°C,
Temperature is O-ring dependent
Windows Material: Sapphire
O-ring Material: Kalrez 6375

2 No.
Included
1.7
I/O kit consisting of:
I/O box
General purpose cabinet
12 Analog output modules
2 Digital output Modules

1 No
Included
1.8
Library models for 10 parameters
1.RON,
2.MON
3.RVP
4.E70
5.E100
6.E150
7.FBP
8.BENZENE
9.AROMATICS
10.OLEFINS,
11.DENSITY
12.E180

1 Lot
Included
1.9
PC with required Software
14th Gen Intel CoreTM i7, 16 GB, DDR5, 1 TB SSD Hard disk, 21"
Antiglare TFT monitor.

1 No.
Included
1.10 With Probe: Make: ADAGE
Manual online retractable type sample probe with first isolation
valve with mounting flanges, gaskets and bolts as required.
MOC: SS316
Process Connections: 1.5”, ANSI 300#

2 Nos
Included
1.11 With Sample and Return Tubing
1⁄2” SS316L Tube (Supply): 90+65 mtrs
1⁄2” SS316L Tube (Return): 90 mtrs

1 Lot
Included
1.12 With Redundant Fast loop pump Skid
2 Nos
Included

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
1.13 With Secondary SHS: Make: ADAGE
With Dual Fast loop filter, Rotameter, etc. required for proper
functioning of analyzer.
SHS shall be mounted on shelter wall inside SS304 SHS box

2 Nos
Included
1.14 With Calibration / Validation Tank System for both Streams
for Multipurpose flow cell measurement.

2 Nos
Included
1.15 With Common Sample Recovery Tank - 200 liters and
Pressure gauge

1 No
Included
1.16 Analyzer Cabinet
Analyzer shall be mounted inside cabinet inside existing shelter
MOC: SS304, 1.5mm thick; Electrical distribution boxes (Lm6);
With headers etc.

Note: Not required as per pre bid query reply.

0 Nos
Not Quoted

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
SECTION 5: Responsibility Matrix
Sr.
No.
Description
Scope
Adage
Customer
1
Design, engineering & supply of System as per offer/BOQ.
Yes

2
Sample Tapping Nozzle Flange

Yes
3
Process Isolation Valve at tapping point

Yes
4
Isolation Valve at process return point

Yes
5
Supply of start-up and commissioning spares-As per Adage recommendation
Yes

6
Supply of Mandatory spares- Quoted
Yes

7
Consumables spares- Quoted
Yes

8
Inspection, Testing, Project Management & Project Documentation
Yes

9
Factory Acceptance Test at Adage Works
Yes

10
Packing forwarding
Yes

11
Freight up to site including Insurance
Yes

12
Storage of supplied system at site

Yes
13
Civil foundation & installation at site including Cables, Field tubes with
supporting structures.

Yes
14
Provision of dry instrument Air, Plant N2 & power feeders near battery limit.

Yes
15
4-20mA, RS485, TCP/IP from field/ AH to DCS

Yes
16
Supervision of Installation and Commissioning SAT & Handover
Yes

17
Training at Site
Yes

CORPORATE HQ & REGISTERED OFFICE
Adage Automation Private Limited
Satra Plaza, Office No: 506, Sector 19 D,
Palm Beach Road, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400703, Maharashtra, INDIA

0832-6620500
www.adage-automation.com
Adage Automation Private Limited
L-26B, Phase II, Verna Industrial Area
Verna, Goa – 403722, INDIA
CIN No: U 74900 MH 2001 PT 133206
SECTION 6: COMMERCIAL TERMS & CONDITION

Price Basis
As per Tender
Packing Charges
As per Tender
GST
As per Tender
HSN Code
9027100
Freight Charges
As per Tender
Insurances
In CPCL Scope
Delivery
As per Tender
Offer validity
As per Tender
Payment Terms
Please refer deviation sheet.
Guarantee Clause
As per Tender

PRODUCT DATASHEET
PROCESS
ANALYZER
NIR-OTM PROCESS
ANALYZER
Full Spectrum Near-Infrared Spectrometer
Real-time
Configurable
High sensitivity
• Polyols: OH (hydroxyl) and acid number
• Polymers: reaction endpoint, co-polymer ratio
• Films: thickness, %T, %R
• Measurement of moisture content
• Refinery products: RON, MON, RVP,
Distillation Points, Olefins, % Oxygen
• Solvent compositions
• Process research and development

NIR Process Analyzer
Our NIR-OTM process analyzer offers remote multi-channel extended range near-infrared (NIR 1000-
2100 nm) spectroscopic analysis. NIR-O provides excellent signal-to-noise ratio, wavelength stability,
NIST traceable wavelength calibration, dual beam optics and built-in diagnostics. Process engineers,
operators, and researchers will appreciate NIR-O’s ability to monitor up to12 process streams or points
within a stream with accuracy, repeatability, and reliability. Additionally, the optional Stability Monitor
System can provide confidence in hardware performance in the field. However a fiber optic jumper
cable must still be installed on channel 6 or 12.
Complete Analyzer System
NIR-O is the core of a comprehensive process analyzer system that includes the spectrometer, one or
more NIR probes, fiber optic cables, and OmniViewTM scanning and analysis software. Like our previous
spectrometers, NIR-O uses near infrared radiation to collect spectral data from liquids, gases, glass,
and polymer-based films. The spectral data are interpreted by the OmniView software to determine
the composition or physical characteristics of the material.
Real-Time Measurements
Using intrinsically safe fiber optic cables to transmit light from the spectrometer to your process
and back, allows real time measurements at any time, providing you with up-to-date process
information. NIR-O is designed to be used with our 500 μm core jacketed fiber optic cables. These
unique cables contain a high purity fused silica core fiber, surrounded by specialized jacketing to
protect both the signal transmitted and the fiber itself, allowing the analyzer to be located up to
two hundred meters away.
True Multiplexing
NIR-O can be configured for up to 12 channels (i.e., independent sample points). This allows you to
incorporate the number of sampling points you need now, while being able to easily and more
economically add sampling points as your process or facility needs change. NIR-O can measure
multiple parameters at up to 12 independent sampling locations in rapid succession by employing
digital optical switching technology. Multiplexing greatly reduces the cost-per-measurement point,
making cost-per-result more economical.

Dimensions shown in inches [mm]
5 (139)
36 (926)
30 (762)
24 (610)
25 (641)
24 (610)
27 (673)
17 (440)
16 (406)
Research-Grade Signal-to-Noise Ratio
NIR-O’s dual beam design, coupled with its high output near-zero aberration scanning grating, puts more
light into the fiber. This provides an excellent signal-to-noise ratio, which means better sensitivity in your
measurements. Each NIR-O provides excellent wavelength accuracy (NIST traceable) and superb
wavelength repeatability.
Options:
• Touch screen computer for local process visualization and control (only on general purpose and
Z-purge package)
• Z-Purge package: Class 1 Zone 2 Groups IIB+ H2 ATEX, IECEx certification
• X-Purge package: Class 1 Zone 1 Groups IIB+ H2 ATEX, IECEx certification
• Solo (PLS_Toolbox) or Piroutte® model prediction engines
• Remote desktop computer
• External 4-20mA analog I/O box, custom configured for your needs
• Starter Library models for Refinery Applications
• Chemometric modeling support available
• FAT/SAT support available
• Chemometric and/or instrument maintenance training
• NIR-O General Purpose (GP) enclosure shown. Dimensions will vary depending upon purge packages.

SMS Option Provides Peace of Mind
An important consideration for successful process monitoring is the ability to continually validate the
performance of the analyzer system's hardware components.
The optional Stability Monitoring System (SMS) is a built-in package for NIR-O, which includes hardware
and software to perform analyzer validation accoring to ASTM methodology. If the SMS option is
selected, then one NIR-O channel must be dedicated to its use.
Analyzer Performance Tests
This topic is addressed in ASTM practice D-6122-
191 under instrument performance tests. The
ASTM practice provides a set of criteria for
establishing baseline analyzer performance
validation. Three levels of hardware testing
are established:
Level 0 – Tests the analyzer hardware’s capability
to generate a consistent spectrum. This is
accomplished by measuring photometric noise,
baseline stability, spectral resolution, photometric
linearity, and wavelength stability.
Level A – Tests compare key parts of the spectral
data with historical data to identify deviations.
Level B – Tests and monitors the instrument
performance for deviations that affect the system
calibration models.
Typical SMS Level 0 Validation Process
A flow chart depicting a typical SMS level 0
validation flow diagram is shown below. Our
SMS operation is seamlessly integrated into the
OmniView control software. SMS provides
assurance that all of the ASTM required
measurements are conducted at the appropriate
time and will send a signal or message to the
control system if a validation issue is encountered.
Routine Process Loop
New Reference
Apply Check sample
Notify Operations of
Invalid Performance
Invoke Backup Control
Troubleshoot and
Repair Analyser
Return NIR to
Process Control
Time for Level 0?
Values OK?
Collect Scan
Calculate Parameters:
• Photometric Linearity
• Baseline Stability
• Wavelenght Stability
• Photometric Noise
• Spectral Resolution
No
Yes
Yes
No

SMS Validation Detects Changes in Performance
The performance tests identified in the ASTM practice are diagnostics that can be used to detect changes
in analyzer performance. This validation provides assurance that the measurement produced by the
analyzer is a result of equipment that is operating properly. Since this is a hands-off procedure, it can be
conducted in the background with no human intervention. The validation is done with an internal filter
having a characteristic spectral signature. There are no liquids or other external sampling modes that are
necessary. Everything is contained inside the NIR-O analyzer enclosure and all SMS related materials are
completely non-hazardous.
Tests Implemented in our SMS Package:
Level 0
1. Photometric noise level
4. Bandwidth
2. Peak location (wavelength stability)
5. Photometric linearity
3. Baseline stability level
Level A
This is a pass/fail performance test that is sensitive to all of the Level 0 parameters. Level A tests do
not identify specific failure modes, but do indicate if the instrument performance is within historical
bounds. In this test, the spectrum of a check sample (or an optical filter) is compared to a historical
spectrum of the check sample.
Level B
The level B tests analyze the spectrum of the SMS filter against the models in use on the analyzer system.
This monitors for deviations to which the calibration model is sensitive. The results are compared to
historical values to detect any change in the analyzer performance.
NOTE: The level B tests are not automatically part of the SMS because they require the customer’s
unique calibration models, which we may not have. We can assist customers in implementing Level B
tests as part of their SMS installation.
1 ASTM D6122-19 Standard Practice for Validation of the Performance of Multivariate Online, At-Line, and
Laboratory Infrared Spectrophotometer Based Analyzer Systems, ASTM International, West
Conshohocken, PA, 2019 www.astm.org

OmniView Process Analysis Software
OmniView is a standalone software package controlling all aspects of a NIR-O anlyzer. It provides full
control of analyzer operations; diagnostics, data manipulation, event logging, trend graphs and alarms,
calibration model security, and control of inputs and outputs. Communications via MODBUS TCP are
included as standard. 4-20 mA analog signals are also supported with optional hardware. OmniView can
be customized with "add-on scripts" to meet the needs of any process installation.
A Comprehensive Package
Support for third-party model chemometric tools are available. Pre-and post-processing of spectral data
is done by way of the PythonTM scripting language. OmniView supports the multiple probes available on
the NIR-O analyzer, each with multiple analyses. Models, probes, or the analyzer can be taken on and
offline with the click of a button.
Remote Access without Interrupting Continuous Analyzer Operations
OmniView allows remote access over LAN/WAN via a
web based Java application. With proper security
settings you can fully operate and configure the
OmniView software and your NIR-O analyzer from
the plant or from any remote location. Simultaneous
users can view the operations, function and “health”
of your NIR-O analyzer. This is extremely useful
as the process engineer, laboratory technician,
maintenance technician, and process supervisor
can all access the analyzer remotely to accomplish
their tasks. Furthermore, at your option are Service
Engineers and/or Applications Specialists can review
and support your system, on demand, from our
service centers.
Features
• User configurable windows to allow customized views
– Multi-tasking
– Pre-Configured for Easy Set-up
– Real-time Trend Charts
– Current Value Display
– Powerful PythonTM Script Language
– Multiple Access Levels (Security)
• Built-in Reporting of Analyzer Diagnostics
Network Accessibility, Local and Global Remote, Real-time Access
• Component and System Level Event Logging
• Event Logging with Manual Entry Option
• I/O – MODBUS® TCP or MODBUS RS232/485 is standard. (4-20mA/discreet signals are optional and
require additional hardware)
• Solo (PLS_Toolbox) or Piroutte® Model Predictions (optional)
NIR-OTM
Analyzer
Remote
Sampling
System
DCS
OmniViewTM
Server runs on the internal
analyzer controller. Accessible
via remote clients or optional
touchscreen.
Remote Clients
LAN WAN
Ethernet
MODBUS® TCP
Over Ethernet
Optical Analog 4-20mA

Specifications
Design:
DG NIR Analyzer spectrometer, post-dispersed scanning grating
Bandwidth:
≤ 6.3 nm
Warranty:
Two (2) year limited warranty
Channels:
Up to 12
Dual Beam:
1 reference channel for each 6 available sample channels
Light Source / Life
Tungsten Halogen:
7.5 V, 15 W (5K hour recommended replace 10K hour life MTBF),
additional spare lamp included
Fiber Optic Cables:
500 μm diameter ultra-low OH
Fiber Optic Cable
Connectors:
SMA 905
Detector Type:
Extended range InGaAs with 2-stage TE cooler
Multiplexer:
Digital rotary switch
Model Engine:
Solo (PLS_Toolbox) or Piroutte®
Communications:
Modbus TCP over ethernet or external OPTO 22 analog and digital I/O
Software Required:
OmniViewTM Process Analysis Software
Wavelength Range:
1000-2100 nm
Wavelength Accuracy:
±0.2 nm
Wavelength Precision
(Repeatability):
±0.02 nm
Wavelength Stability
(Drift):
±0.02 nm/day rms
Minimum Step Size:
0.5 nm
Photometric Noise:
Single scan full range ≤50 μAU rms, 4 scan average full range ≤25 μAU rms
Photometric Stability
(Baseline):
≤0.00075 AU/day rms
Photometric Linearity:
@ 1 AU stray >0.987, stray light <0.1 %
Scan Time (Dual Beam):
6 sec/channel (full range, no long pass filter, 1 scan to average)
RoHS Compliant:
Yes
Dimensions
(General Purpose):
Overall: 36” (w) x 17” (d) x 27” (h) [93 cm x44 cm x 68 cm]
Enclosure Options:
Temperature controlled NEMA 12, NEMA 4, IP 54, IEC 60529
Protection Options:
General purpose, Z-Purge, X-Purge
Certifications:
ATEX, CE, IECEx (C1Z1, C1Z2, C1D1, C1D2) CSA, PACE, CNEX
Environmental:
0-45°C, 0-100% Non-condensing, sun shaded and rain protected
Weight:
Approximately 180 lbs [82 kg]
Power Requirements:
110/230 VAC, 50/60 Hz (325 W instrument only) (1500 W maximum with
air conditioner)
Remote Clients
Minimum Computer Requirements
• Intel® Dual Core processor
• 4 GB RAM minimum, or as required for OS
• Recommended 19 inch (minimum) monitor with 1080x1024 screen resolution
• 100 MB Ethernet for network access
• Microsoft Windows® OS – Win 7/10

www.process-insights.com Copyright © 2025 Process Insights, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
GAIN REAL-TIME INSIGHT INTO YOUR PROCESS
Process Insights delivers premium analytical sensors, analyzers, instrumentation, software and
solutions that are mission-critical to keep your operations, personnel, and the environment safe.
Our commitment to customer satisfaction is evident through our diverse range of products,
programs, and services, designed to accommodate various budgets and application needs.
CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE | PROVIDING PROVEN SOLUTIONS
Process Insights – The Americas
14400 Hollister Street, Suite 800B, Houston, TX 77066, USA +1 713 947 9591
info.americas@process-insights.com
Process Insights – EMEAI
ATRICOM, Lyoner Strasse 15, 60528 Frankfurt, Germany +49 69 20436910
info.emeai@process-insights.com
Process Insights – APAC & CN
Wujiang Economic and Technology, Development Zone, No. 258 Yi He Road, 215200 Suzhou,
Jiangsu Province, China +86 400 086 0106
info.apac@process-insights.com
info.cn@process-insights.com
_v25

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 1 of 25

ANNEXURE-I
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR DUAL STREAM ONLINE
NIR ANALYSER

22/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 2 of 25

SL.NO
DESCRIPTION
PAGE NUMBER
1.
INTRODUCTION
3
2.
PROPOSAL OVERVIEW
3
3.
PROVEN TRACK RECORD
3-4
4.
BILL OF MATERIAL
4-6
5.
SCOPE OF WORK
6-8
6.
GENERAL SPECIFICATION
8-16
7.
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDER
16
8.
INSPECTION,
FACTORY
ACCEPTANCE
TEST,
COMMISSIONING AND SITE ACCEPTANCE TEST
17
9.
INSTALLATION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING BY
BIDDER AT SITE
17-18
10.
FINAL SITE ACCEPTANCE TESTING
18
11.
WARRANTY
18
12.
POST WARRANTY CAMC ( PWCAMC)
19-21
13.
TRAINING REQUIREMENT
21
14.
PACKING AND SHIPPING
21-22
15.
PAYMENT TERMS
22
16.
RECOMMENDED SUB-VENDOR LIST
22-23
17.
BIDDER DOCUMENT REQUIREMENT
24
18.
CERTIFICATE FOR LOGISTIC SUPPORT
25

23/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 3 of 25

1. INTRODUCTION

 Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), Manali intends to procure Dual Stream -Online- NIR
Analysers with 2 years’ warranty and 6 years Post Warranty Comprehensive Annual Maintenance
Contract (PWCAMC) for OM&S Unit (Two Streams). The offered analyser with Sample Handling System
is for the replacement of existing PIONIR 1024 X and it shall be mounted in the Existing Analyser Shelter.
 Field Ambient Conditions:

Ambient Temperature: Max.: 450C Min.: 150C

Relative Humidity: Max.: 95 %, Min.: 58%

Maximum temperature in the field is 45 Deg C and RH 87% at 38 0C. The atmosphere at site is
tropical in nature.

2. PROPOSAL OVERVIEW

 Bidder can offer DG NIR or FT NIR Type Analyser, both types are acceptable. In this document general
term NIR is used and is applicable to both types of Analysers.
 This specification and its attachments covers the minimum requirements for the Design, Engineering,
Manufacturing, factory testing, Packing and Forwarding & supply, Supervision of Site Installation, Site
Modelling & Commissioning of the NIR Analyser to the CPCL Refinery.
 The general specification of the NIR Analyser is attached as Annexure-II A and Inspection Test Plan is
attached as Annexure-II B.
 The data sheet of the NIR Analyser is attached as Annexure-IIIA, IIIB, IIIC.
 The supplied NIR Analyser shall be mounted in place of the existing NIR Analyzer in existing shelter.
 Bidder to submit PTR of the quoted make and model as per clause no.3 of this Annexure.
 Bidder to supply material as per BOM mentioned in clause no.4 of this Annexure.
 Bidder’s scope of work is mentioned in clause no.5 of this Annexure.
 Bidder’s clarification and deviation shall be given as per Deviation sheet attached along with Tender
document. In general, zero deviation is expected in the specification. Accordingly, all
clarifications/confirmations shall be taken up in pre-bid queries.
 In case Bidder has any other valid technical reason, they must include a list of clarifications/deviations
point number wise, summing up all the clarifications/deviations from the technical specifications along
with the technical reasons for each of these deviations. In absence of any written deviation clearly
specified in the offer, it will be considered that the offer is in line with the requirements & complied in
totality of this document.
 Bidder’s scope of Warranty, PWCAMC is mentioned in clause no. 13 of this Annexure.
 Bidder to submit logistic support as per clause no.18 of this Annexure.

3. PROVEN TRACK RECORD

 The offered make and model of NIR Analysers shall be rugged in design & should be in operation with
process application of hydrocarbon service in hazardous Process plants in Petroleum Refinery (or)
Petrochemical industries in India. Further, it should also have proven performance track record (PTR) of
continuous trouble-free operation for last one year and within last 7 years of installation in India preceding
the date of scheduled technical bid opening.
24/197
Noted and Confirmed
Noted and Confirmed
Noted and Confirmed, PFA HPCL Mumbai , PO

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 4 of 25

 Bidder shall furnish the following documentary evidence as a minimum in support of above point (3.1)
along with the offer for technical evaluation. All the below mentioned supporting details to be submitted
before due date of tender. Providing insufficient contact details stating that it is confidential and cannot
be shared shall not be accepted and it may lead to rejection of offer.
 Letter from the Petroleum Refinery or Petrochemical industries stating that the installed NIR Analysers
has been working satisfactorily for the last one year. This letter must be on the letter head of industry
along with details of signatory such as Name, designation and contact details.
(or)
 In case letter is not available, details to be provided as per table given below with reference PO copy.
The person mentioned in the contact details must respond to queries/clarifications raised by CPCL else
the offer shall not be considered for further evaluation.

S.No.
Name of
Organisation
PO details
Make
Model
APPLN.
Name,
Mobile No.,
E-Mail
1

2

 CPCL reserves the right to use in-house information for the assessment of Make and Model quoted by
the bidder.

4. BILL OF MATERIAL(BOM)

 Evaluation of Offer: Overall Lowest price including PWCAMC and Modelling Charges.

25/197
Noted and Confirmed

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 5 of 25

SN
ITEM
QUANTITY
RATE
1
Dual Stream MS -NIR Analyser (with 2 Streams)
1Lot
Lump sum
2
Sample handling for Stream 1 (Stream#1 take off to
Analyser: 90 Meters)
1. Fast Loop Pumps with SS316L tubing between
primary, secondary sample handling system, with
or without electrical heating arrangement (OEM
Requirement)
2. Primary
Sample
Handling
System-
SS-304
Cabinet, Heater, Retractable sample probe, Ball
Valves, Dual Filter, Regulator, Flame arrestor,
Chillers etc., along with fast loop pumps (SHS
Design Approved by OEM)
3. Secondary Sample Handling System consist of SS-
304 Cabinet, Heater/Chiller Isolation Valve, SOV,
Dust Filter, Coalescing Dual Filter, Pressure
Regulator, Flow indicator, SS316L tubing, Flame
arrestor etc (SHS Design Approved by OEM)
Sample handling for Stream 2 (Stream#2 take off to
Analyser: 65 Meters)
1. Fast Loop Pumps with SS316L tubing between
primary, secondary sample handling system, with
or without electrical heating arrangement (OEM
Requirement)
2. Primary
Sample
Handling
System-
SS-304
Cabinet, Heater, Retractable sample probe, Ball
Valves, Dual Filter, Regulator, Flame arrestor,
Chillers etc., along with fast loop pumps (SHS
Design Approved by OEM)
3. Secondary Sample Handling System consist of SS-
304 Cabinet, Heater/Chiller Isolation Valve, SOV,
Dust Filter, Coalescing Dual Filter, Pressure
Regulator, Flow indicator, SS316L tubing, Flame
arrestor etc., (SHS Design Approved by OEM)
and Stream 2 With Fast Loop Pumps, Sample Validation,
Sample recovery system, Data analysis PC with software.
3
Mandatory and startup/Commissioning spares/ Training
Requirements.
4
Supervision of Installation and Commissioning, Modelling
and PGTR ( Lab NIR analyser for model building
(Returnable) – 5 Months
1Lot
Lump Sum
for 5 Months
5
Price for Model building (Lab NIR analyser for model
building (Returnable) 6 Months will be utilized by CPCL in
addition to Sl.No.4) a Separate PO Will be issued by
CPCL.
6 Months
Month Wise
Price
Required
Post Warranty Comprehensive Annual Maintenance (a separate PO after Warranty Period)
6
PWCAMC -I year
Year

26/197
Noted and Confirmed

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 6 of 25

5. SCOPE OF WORKS


Bidder's Scope

 Following will be the scope of bidder:
 Design, Engineering, Proper design of sampling system, selection, testing, supply, supervision of
installation, Modelling, validation and commissioning as per given in the list.
 Analyzer: Online NIR analyzer (shall be placed in existing analyser shelter with existing HVAC system)
 Sample Handling & validation and Recovery system: Vendor shall supply new Sample Handling &
validation and Recovery system
 Associated ancillary items: Vendor shall supply new Sample probes, Fast loop pump skid, cable glands,
etc.
 Laboratory NIR analyzer for model building on returnable basis till handing over of system.
 Mandatory consumables, commissioning and maintenance spares
 Calibration tools, calibration blends, special tools and required other utilities
 Fitting and accessories
 Packing, dispatch, unloading, shifting at site
 FAT, Inspection, Training
 Sample fast loop Pumps
 Site installation supervision
 Start up and commissioning services, model building
 Site Acceptance test, PGTR and handing over of system
 Two year extended warranty with same terms and condition
 Training of the customer personnel
 Vendor to quote for the value of model building man day basis for 6 Months in price bid which shall be
exercised by CPCL based on the feed composition changes or on requirement after commissioning and
handing over of the analyser.


Bidders other responsibilities includes

 Complete Application Engineering so as to achieve the desired analysis within the specified time
 Proper design of sampling system with Fast loop pump etc. as per the data sheet/relevant standards and
analyzer to measure the components of interest
 Selection of materials for all parts of the analyzer and sampling system so as to be compatible with
process stream and surrounding atmosphere as per purchaser data sheet.
7 PWCAMC -II year
Year

8
PWCAMC -III year
Year

9
PWCAMC -IV year
Year

10 PWCAMC -V year
Year

11 PWCAMC -VI year
Year

27/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 7 of 25

 Bidder shall make provision of 4-20 output for all parameters to be measured and RS-485 Modbus RTU
/TCP in analyzer shelter for interfacing analyzer system to purchaser's DCS.
 Bidder shall supply all equipment and accessories which are Class 1 Div 1, Gr.IIA/IIB/ITC, 'T4 certified.
 Bidder shall depute representative with expertise in sample analysis and analyzer handling to site. The
NIR representative shall collect the spectra of sample from CPCL Lab and develop NIR model. Fine
tuning shall be done at site.
 Bidder shall give complete list of utilities (air & Power supply) required and specify its consumption, and
size of all utilities connections.
 Bidder shall submit the power consumption chart for each unit and specify the requirement.
 Bidder shall submit all drawing for owner approval such as power distribution inside analyzer shelter,
utility distribution, Analyser GA /SHS drawing before commencement of manufacturing.
 Bidder shall accept the project on turnkey basis
 Power distribution should be in such a way that, isolation of each unit shall be possible independently.


Bidder's offer shall include a detailed document/ drawing sheet for the following

 Transportation time calculations indicating sample flow rates, recommended length and size of the
sampling tube between sampling point and sample handling system
 Recommended tapping position for sample take off and return across control valve shall be provided by
bidder.
 Schematic flow diagram for analyzer including sampling system details.
 Details of Sample conditioning system
 Various Utilities consumption
 Power distribution for 110 VAC UPS with necessary no. of feeders and feeder ratings.


CPCL scope


Following shall be in the scope of CPCL.

Arrangement of
a) LP/HP steam
b) Instrument and service air: @ 7.5 kg/cm2g, Dew point: -40 deg C.
c) Cooling water.
d) Nitrogen


Arrangement of Power with cables are available at existing Analyser shelter
a) For Analyzer: 110 VAC,50 Hz, Single phase from UPS
b) For lighting/ fans/heaters: 240 VAC,50 Hz, Single Phase Non UPS
c) For fast loop pumps motors: 415 VAC,50 Hz, 3 Phase
d) For HVAC: 415 VAC,50 Hz, 3 phase (existing HVAC)


The above cables already available at the analyzer house and further distribution within the
analyser is in bidder's scope. Bidder has to take care of any other than above power and utilities
and its distribution for calibration, validation and complete functioning of the analyzer system.

Configuration of all tags in DCS will be CPCL scope.

Shelter with AC and air handling system (AHU) shall be in CPCL scope (existing one shall be
utilized)

28/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 8 of 25


Laying of cables from analyser shelter to DCS shall be in CPCL scope.

Pump foundation if required shall be in CPCL scope. However, the required details shall be
provided by bidder

6. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ONLINE ANALYZER: NIR

 The NIR analyzer requited to meet the following objectives:
a) To provide continuous and online analysis of the blended header.
b) To provide accurate real time analysis data.
c) To achieve precise blended header control to minimize re-blending and minimizing give way.
d) To manage blend header quality effectively and profitably.

 The analyzer system as offered shall be highly reliable and shall have well proven design.
 Online NIR Analyzer for blended MS from BS-VI & IV headers of CPCL OM&S unit is required for
monitoring properties such as density, RON, MON, RVP, E70, E100, E150, FBP, Residue, E180
Benzene, Aromatics and olefin, distillation of MS and analyzer shall be capable to measure other MS
related parameters which may be required to be monitored.
 Details of the accuracies to be met by the analyzer, which shall be part of analyzer guarantee Please
refer datasheet for details of parameters readings expected from online NIR analyzer against
actual (lab) readings.
 Analyzer shall be installed in existing analyzer shelter and installation shall normally be in Accordance
with API RP-550 equivalent suiting to our process conditions.
 In general analyzer and sampling system shall be designed and constructed in accordance with API-
MPMS (Relevant portions) or ASTM D 417795 or equivalent.
 NIR analyzer shall have 4-20 mA analog signal and RS-485 MODBUS RTU for DCS interfacing.
Lightning surge protectors shall be provided for serial communication and other sensitive electronic
units.
 NIR analyzer shall have 2 input channels (BS-IV & BS-VI) as minimum as shown in drawing/
specification.
 Bidder shall offer latest analysis methods for NIR analyzer, as per standards mentioned in Data sheet.
 Bidder shall provide minimum detection value and repeatability for each analyzer as part of Offer.
 The analyzer shall be fully tested for the calibration and repeatability test along with the Sample (nearest
to actual product) before dispatch. No analyzer shall be dispatched unless tested by the supplier.
 NIR analyzer shall be supplied with all its components, accessories and software to make the system
Complete. NIR PC shall be located inside analyzer shelter.
 System in general shall consist of

a)
NIR spectrometer
Spectrometer shall meet following requirements, as minimum
Wavelength Range-Typically: Vender to specify
Wavelength accuracy+/-0.2nm
Wavelength repeatability: + /-0.02 nm
Wavelength resolution: 6.8 nm
Response time: 30 sec/ channel
b)
Sample probe

29/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 9 of 25

c)
Sample conditioning system
d)
Sample flow cell
e)
Signal transmission media
f)
Properties display units
g)
System maintenance tools
h)
Chemo metric software

 NIR analyzer shall have a inbuilt stability monitoring system for validating the analyzer Without
interrupting the online channels thus eliminating any downtime caused due to Analyzer validation.
 NIR analyzer shall be able to record trends of unknown sample also. User shall be able to take these
trends for analysis and model building. NIR analyzer should also intimate the operator regarding
unknown sample. Outlier sample system shall be included in SHS. As part of SAT and FAT outlier shall
be demonstrated.
 NIR analyzer shall have the capability to analyze more than 100 parameters (blend Properties) with 25
or more different parameters at each channel.
 NIR analyzer shall be suitable for the specified hazardous area classification and Weatherproof to
IP65/NEMA 4x, which are intrinsically safe/ flame proof/purged, should Be certified by an approving
authorities like Baseefa, UL, FM, PTB, LCIE, ATEX etc. and Further should have certification by Chief
Controller of Explosives (CCOE), Nagpur, India. As a minimum all the instruments and enclosures in
field shall be dust proof and weatherproof to IP 65 as per IEC 60529/1S-2147
 Bidder scope shall include supply of analysis software (latest version) and it should also have facility to
do analysis during validation of analyzer system. Bidder shall take care to maintain uniformity in
hardware and software platforms supplied for this project. Hybrid technologies, obsolete models or
models which are likely to be discontinued shall not be offered. Vendor shall provide updates and
revisions in software without any price implication during AMC.
 Bidder shall also supply Chemo metric software for developing of tuning correlations for Specified
properties. It shall be possible to add more properties without any change in the Software. Training to
CPCL personnel shall be provided to develop chemo metric model.
 In addition to software supplied bidder shall provide
a)
Alarms, Diagnostics and Programming facility.
b)
Tuning and data validation

c)
Data processing
d)
Accurate and Reliable results
e)
Maintenance guided messages
f)
Data Storage and report generation

 Host computer supplied with NIR analyzer shall be latest with following specifications as a Minimum.
14th Gen Intel CoreTM i7, 16 GB, DDR5, 1 TB SSD Hard disk, 21" Antiglare TFT monitor. The OS shall
be latest version of Windows with Proper cyber security Programs. 5 Years OEM warranty shall be
provided.
 NIR analyzer shall be online-type only, laboratory model will not be accepted.


NIR Model Development and Tuning
30/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 10 of 25

 Bidder shall develop the model based on the data collected from the Refinery. This model shall be
developed based on the rough model available with the bidder.
 Site sample collection, chemo metrics model development and tuning of NIR analyser is in vendor
scope. Vendor to build the calibration model for the supplied NIR analyser with the help of Lab NIR
analyser, transfer the model to NIR analyser and make the analyser data available in DCS.
 In order to collect data, bidder shall depute their person along with a lab NIR analyzer to site in advance
after PO placement. The data shall be collected during this period for various plant operating Conditions
so that models are developed and fine-tuned to be as good as the near operating Conditions.
 Bidder shall supply Lab NIR analyzer two months in advance to CPCL on returnable basis till
commissioning and performance testing of system. In order to collect data, vendor shall depute their
trained person along with a lab NIR analyzer to site in advance (2 months). Suitable data shall be
collected during this period for various plant operating conditions so that models are developed and
fine-tuned to be as good as the near operating conditions.
 The supplied system shall not deviate from the specified acceptable limits given in datasheet for MS
for minimum 90% of the total number of individual batches made for the period of 2 months as per
CPCL QC laboratory results. The deviation should be within the repeatability and reproducibility
specified.
 The performance testing of the sample shall be carried out in CPCL Lab as per approved procedure.
 Vendor to provide guarantee that the analyser result shall be consistent with refinery laboratory methods
used.
 Vendor to quote for annual man day rates for Six Months (Month wise) and same can be consumed
within next Six years or continuously for any up gradation/ changes in model building along with the
price bid, Utilization of which shall be shall be exercised by CPCL based on the requirement only.


Analyser System General requirement

 Analyser cabinet supplied shall be installed in existing analyser shelter, vendor shall study the existing
analyser shelter layout, dimension and arrangement of equipment's and design the analyser cabinet
system such that it provides enough access to Front/back/ sides of the equipment's as necessary during
normal operation as well as during start up and maintenance.


Construction

 All wiring / tubing and all other erection work shall be done in accordance to API RP 550
 All cable entries / outlets in the junction boxes / distribution boxes etc and to the analyzer shall be
provided with double compression type certified flame proof cables glands suitable for the indicated
hazardous area. The material of the same shall be Nickel plated brass. The junction box shall be of die
cast aluminium & suitable for Zone 1, Gt IIC.
 Main switches shall be provided to isolate the analyser power, shall be mounted inside the analyzer
house which shall be weather proof to IP65 and explosion proof suitable to the hazardous area
classification.
 Properly segregated Panel/power earth and shield ground bus bar shall be provided in analyser cabinet.
31/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 11 of 25

 Analyser cabinet shall be fully assembled and pre wired from factory, Internal loop check and testing
shall be done at factory before dispatch.


Electrical Requirements

 The enclosure should be suitable for the specified location and authorized as specified on the data
sheets. The offered analyser shall be intrinsically safe/Ex-proof/purged certified.
 Vendor to ensure that offered analysers work satisfactorily at the ambient site conditions specified in
this tender. Temperature monitoring and controller shall be provided for the system.
 Field mounted equipment's with electrical components, which ate to be located in hazardous area, shall
be approved for use in the specified areas by an authorized testing agency. Bidder shall submit
certificate from relevant authority for ex. CMRS, CENELEC, FM, BASEEFA etc. In addition to the above,
certification of CCOE Nagpur, India shall be obtained as a mandatory requirement. All the electrical
components to be installed outside the analyzer shelter shall be suitable for Zone 1 group TIA, 11B T3
hazardous area.
 The internal wiring shall be terminated at terminal board or external junction boxes. Cable entry for the
customer's external cable shall be NPT (F) with bottom entry, unless otherwise specified on the data
Sheets. Terminal shall be suitable up to 2.5sq.mm cable. Internal and external grounding connection
shall be furnished on the shelter. Interconnecting wiring shall be color coded/numbered and terminals
shall be fully identified and marked. Analyzer shelter shall have two earthing cable connections
terminals at different locations.
 All cable glands shall be of nickel-plated brass and they shall be of double compression type suitable
for armoured cables. All cable glands are to be provided with PVC shroud. Flameproof glands wherever
required.
 The purchaser at Single point near the shelter will provide primary 110 VAC UPS supply. Further
distribution will be by bidder. Voltage and frequency, and their variation shall be as specified. The
variation of voltage and frequency will be expected +10 % and +2 Hz respectively for UPS supply. The
Analyzer performance shall be within specifications when the supply voltage varies as above.
 The bidder's power supplies shall convert, if necessary, the supplied AC power to the power requited
for each device, i.e. Bidder shall state the overall system power requirements.
These shall include the followings:
- AC power consumption (with break up)
- AC voltage and frequency tolerances.


Sample Handling, Validation and Recovery System


Scope

32/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 12 of 25

 Vendor is required to supply a completely assembled sample conditioning system, calibration &
validation and recovery system. The sampling system shall be designed as part of the analyzer system
and completeness of system shall ensure by bidder. When separate system is provided, easy
adaptation to the analyzer shall be considered. Scope includes the supply of pumps, filters, strainers,
pressure regulators, flow transmitter, pressure transmitters, solenoid valves, manual isolations valves,
drain taps, outlier (unknown) sample system and all other requited accessories to meet the
requirements according to process conditions mentioned in data sheet.


Objectives

 The objectives of sample handling, and recovery systems are
a) To deliver a clean, moisture free, bubble free and representative sample to the analyzer.
b) To calibrate, validate and check the response of the analyzer.
c) To recover and return the sample to the main product stream after completion of analysis.
d) To divert and collect the outlier (unknown) sample.


Design requirement for Sample handling system

 Vendor shall study the existing shelter and its periphery layout / dimension and design Analyser and
Sampling system suitably site visits can be included in SOW.
 The sample conditioning system shall be designed to provide a compatible & representative Sample at
a pressure, temperature, and flow rate suitable for the NIR analyzers & existing Sulphur Analysers and
Density meters.
 Sample handling systems parameters to be displayed in DCS for monitoring. The necessary Output
shall be given for DCS connections through Modbus RTU Communication
 The sample shall be filtered, pressure and temperature conditioned, degassed and Prepared so as to
provide the analyzer a uniform sample, and avoiding extraneous effects that can cause the system to
provide erroneous results.
 Maximum moisture content in the sample lines shall be 500 ppm. Bidder to design the system in such
a way that reading are not affected by moisture content. The requirement of sample handling system
shall be decided accordingly.
 Tube fitting shall be of double compression type. The thread type shall be NPT and tube Size in mm
only.
 All tubing work shall be done by using SS tube in mm and flare less, double compression type fittings.
 All atmospheric gas outlet line shall be equipped with protection from climatic condition.
 Sampling system shall consist of one or more of the following components as required by The service
conditions shown on the process datasheet; filters (coarse & fine), pressure Regulators, Pressure Relief
valves, flow indicators, flow controllers, temperature indicators, Scrubbers, heaters, coolers/Chillers,
dryers, sample pumps, etc. Bidder shall include any additional Requirements if any.
 The bidder shall submit the GA drawing of a complete sample conditioning system and Analyzer which
shows all equipment including outline dimensions, connection sizes and Types along with technical
bid.
33/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 13 of 25

 Additional Sample inlet and outlet connection with isolation valve shall be provided for existing Sulphur
analyser inside same Shelter.


Requirement for sample handling system

 Sample conditioning system shall be separate for each MS stream at different locations.
 Requirement of recovery tank for two MS headers shall be decided by bidder and shall offer the same.
 For MS sample headers reliable Flow transmitter shall be provided. For recovery tank(s) level
transmitters shall be contact type radar.
 All sample handling system and all fast loop devices, distrubution devices shall be kept outside the
shelter. A suitable restriction orifice shall be provided in each sample line to limit the sample flow not
exceeding the normal flow in the event of tube rupture / opening of the tube down the line.
 All analog transmitters/Analog Outputs/Analyser Outputs/RS485 required in sample handling
system/Analysers, pump Skid, sample recovery tank shall be connected to CPCL DCS/PLC system by
a bidder supplied JB and signals shall be terminated up to JB, Further Multipair cable supply and laying
shall be CPCL.
 I/ Os related to pump skid, Level Transmitter, Pressure transmitter shall be used to Auto/Manual
start/Stop locally, additionally the Level, Pressure and Pump Status (Running/Auto/Manual) shall be
terminated in a JB, Further Multipair cable supply and laying up to CPCL DCS/PLC system is by
Purchaser. Digital and Analog, Communication Signals shall be suitably segregated in separate JB.
 Bidder can utilize the existing piping from sample point in field to the sample conditioning system, if it
suits the offered system. The sample tapping will be provided by the owner with isolation valve. Bidder
shall confirm the size of the isolation valve before selecting the pipe/tubes.
 Sample shall be extracted from the line with the help of sample Probe. Sample probe shall allow
representative sample extraction from the line. The probes shall be extraction Type and suitable for
online removal, also suitable for the pressure temperature Conditions specified. Sample probe OD shall
be properly selected to suit the piping isolation Valve ID size. Necessary flange connection shall be
provided for the sample probe. Owner Shall be supplying first isolation valve at each tap off point.
 Sample conditioning system, validation system and sample recovery system shall be mounted in the
field near MS headers. Distance between sample handling system and analyzer shelter shall be up to
100 meters.
 Wetted parts in contact with the process fluid shall be 316 stainless steel as a minimum, unless other
materials are required by the process condition. Copper Of copper base alloys shall not be used for
any Interior metal parts that will be exposed to the sample.
 The sampling system shall be supplied pre-mounted on a self-standing panel in general. The panel
shall have holes to anchor it to the ground with anchor bolts. The Panel shall be SS plate mounted and
on self-standing skid.
 All fast loop pumps / moving parts shall have redundancy. During failure of one pump, other pump
should take auto start and maintain the flow to the analyser. Pump fun/ stop /trip indication shall be
given in DCS. Pump start/ stop auto/manual station shall be located near SHS. Normal pump operation
changeover shall be manual only. All cable between Shelter/Motor controls centers (MCC) to pump
skid, shall be in CPCL's scope.
34/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 14 of 25

 Filters shall be always dual & it shall be possible to remove & replace one of the filters without upsetting
the operation of the analyzer.

 The sample system shall be engineered designed, fabricated & furnished completely assembled as a
package.
 Sample conditioning design calculations such as probe wake frequency, transportation lag Time, and
pressure drop to be submitted along with the offer.
 Each sampling system component shall be capable of being removed without disassembling the entire
system.
 The sample recovery system should be eco-friendly, sample spill over shall be avoided. Recovered
sample shall be properly returned to the main stream to avoid loss of the final Product.
 All instrument cable related to SHS, Fast loop pump skid shall be terminated in Junction Box near SHS
in field. Junction box shall be suitable Zone 1 group ILA, 11B T3 hazardous Area. Vendor shall supply
required JB with glands.
 Field mounted electrical components, which are to be located in hazardous Area, shall be approved for
use in the specified areas by an authorized testing agency. Bidder shall submit
from relevant
authority for ex. CMRS, CENELEC, FM, BASEEFA etc. In addition to the above, certification of CCOE
Nagpur, India shall be obtained as a mandatory requirement. All the components to be installed outside
the shelter shall be suitable for Zone 1 group ILA, 11B T3 hazardous area.
 Proper arrangement shall be made for SHS and other components to protect it from Rain, dust and
sunlight.
 Outlier (unknown) sample system shall be provided to divert and collect the unknown Sample if NIR
analyzer detects data as 'unknown'. Small chamber with 0.5 to 1liter storage Capacity for unknown
sample, shall be provided.
 LED Lights shall be provided at SHS skid. Power supply & cable laying shall be M/S CPCL scope.
 Safety against over pressure, over temperature shall be considered while designing SHS. PSVs and
TSVs shall be provided for protection of system.
 Protection shall be provided for fast loop pumps against low flow. System shall take care for high sample
flow also. SHS shall be designed for varying pressure of sample to ensure accuracy of analyzer.


Connections of sample, Vent, Drain and Utilities

 Flanged connection shall be in accordance with ANSI/ASME B 16.5, and threaded Connection shall be
NPT in accordance with ANSI/ASME B 1.20A, unless otherwise specified. Flange face finish shall be
serrated concentric according to ANSI/ASME B 16.5.
 Analyser sample systems and related equipment shall be mounted and interconnected by Bidder with
required utilities and accessories. Internal piping and tubing shall be terminated at bulkhead
connections, and internal wiring shall be terminated at external Junction boxes. All necessary hardware
should be also included.
 The sampling tubing shall preferably be 6 or 12mm OD SS316 except where higher grade Material is
requited. Compression fittings ferrules shall have hardness greater than the Connective tubing. Incase
of line pressure above or equal to 900 LBS 1/2" bore pipe & pipe Fittings to be used as per the piping
specifications.
35/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 15 of 25

 All sample vents, drain shall be gathered to external headers. The tie-in connections for Utilities (air,
vent, drain) shall also be provided, if necessary. Sample tubing and utilities Tubing shall have
nameplates, tag plate both inside and outside.
 Bidder shall specify the utility consumption and size of all utility connections.
 The filter regulator stations, if necessary, shall be provided on the instrument air supply line. Instrument
(or Compressed) air connection shall be provided with air set (filter, regulator and output gauge).
Connection size and type shall be 1 /4 inch NPT (F), unless otherwise specified on the Data Sheets.
 The sample vent line header shall be provided. The ending of header shall be expected to add the extra
pipe to exhaust the vent gases to safety area in plant site. So the Bidder shall have the duty to prepare
the flanged ending and hood for protection from bad Weather during the transportation or under
construction.
 All bleeders between block valves to be provided with flanged end.


Nameplate

 Each assembly shall have a nameplate made of corrosion-resistance metal and all data shall be clearly
and deeply stamped into the metal by raised letters. The nameplate shall be permanently attached to
the instrument housing and bearing the following information.
a)
Tag number.
b)
Bidder's name or trade mark, model number and serial number.
c)
Operating range and unit.
d)
Power supply and output signal.
e)
Degree of Explosion Proof & weather Proof / Enclosure Class
 Accessory equipment such as probes, sample conditioning elements, and other items which Cannot be
mounted on the Analyzer but. are furnished separately shall be tagged with a 25mm (1 in.) diameter
stainless steel tag on which is stenciled the instrument tag number. The tag shall be attached with
stainless steel wire. Only one tag is required for each Individual assembly.


Mandatory, Commissioning and Operational spares:

 Bidder shall prepare and submit the list of recommended spare parts and consumables as Specified
below:

 a) Spares parts and Consmable for Commissioning: Supply start up and commissioning spare parts
for each analyser system as per vendor recommendations, as commissioning is vendor responsibility.
Additional spare parts, if required, during start up and commissioning, even though not listed, shall be
supplied by the vendor without any price implication.
 b) Spare parts and consumables for 3 years of operations: These spares shall be supplied as loose
items. Minimum spares for commissioning & mandatory spares are given below
List of commissioning spare:
•
Lamp Assembly: 1 No.
•
Laser Head: 1 No.
•
Desiccant: 2 Sets.
36/197
As per attached List

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 16 of 25

•
Pressure Transmitter: 1 No.
•
Basic board Assembly with Relay for Inner Pressure Protection: 1 No.
•
All type of fuses

Mandatory Spares:

•
Lamp Assembly: 6 Nos.
•
Laser Head: 1 Nos.
•
Detector assembly: 1 Nos.
•
Filter
wheel,
optical
filters,
grating
assembly,
and
spectrometer:
INOS
each.
•
All type of power supply module i.e. laser, source, main analyser power
supply, Control unit Power supply: 1 Nos. each
•
All type of PCBs /Modules: 1 No's each.
i.e. Communication module, main Processor board, temperature controller, Display and key
board module, CPU, Input/output module, DSP Board, Servo board
•
Fibre probes with connector's: 1 set
•
Sampling system consumables i.e. desiccants, filters, gas cylinders, calibration solution
(if any) etc.

 Wherever it is not possible to supply individual PCB or component, full assembly shall be supplied.

7. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS:

 Bidder shall study the given specification and carry out site visit, thoroughly check all the necessary
things, understand the job nature, tender requirements and accordingly proceed further.
 Bidder shall attend Pre-Bid meeting before submitting the offer.
 Bidder shall not make any assumption, and all clarifications shall be taken from purchaser during Pre-
Bid meeting. The bid which is based on any assumption, the purchaser would have the option to reject
such bid.
 If the bidder has any specific item, component, design or services not explicitly indicated in the tender
but required to complete the job as per the tender requirements or by virtue of bidder's design, the same
shall be included in the bidder's scope.
 Bidder shall be responsible for the selection of instruments, other items including accessories and it's
suitability to meet the specification in totality. If at any stage, till the completion of the order, the offered
instruments, other items including accessories ate found unsuitable with respect to the tender
requirements, the bidder shall supply suitable model meeting the specification without any cost
implication to CPCL.
 In the event of conflict between this specification, datasheets, related standards, codes etc. the bidder
shall refer the matter to purchaser for any clarification.
 During the commissioning stage and model building, because of analyser problem if model building
requites modification or changes, it shall be in the scope of vendor for which no extra payment will be
done.

37/197
As per attached List

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 17 of 25

8. INSPECTION, FACTORY ACCEPTANCE TEST, COMMISSIONING AND SITE ACCEPTANCE TEST

 Bidder shall provide schedule of factory testing and inspection.
 Bidder shall submit the factory testing and customer acceptance procedure for the approval of the CPCL
as per Inspection and Test plan attached as Annexure-IIB. The document shall contain the information
related to each test e.g., purpose of test definition, test procedure, and acceptance criteria. The cost of
performing all the tests shall be borne by the Bidder.
 Bidder shall notify the CPCL at least 15 days prior to the final system testing at Bidder’s works. In the
event of those representatives of CPCL arrive and the system is not ready for testing, the Bidder shall
liable for back charging for any extra time and expenses incurred by the CPCL.
 System checkouts shall be carried out i.e., checking of all inter-connection, configurations and overall
system functioning before intimating CPCL for final factory acceptance test. (FAT). A copy of the Pre-
FAT report may be sent 15 days in advance for the review of the CPCL officials.
 All the bought-out item test certificates shall be furnished. Necessary certificates like CCOE shall also
be furnished.
 All the relevant test certification shall be shown
 During the Factory testing, bidder shall test and demonstrate to the CPCL, the functional integrity of
NIR Analyser, sampling system and all other hardware. Repeatability test shall be performed on all NIR
for a test period of 24 hours. No material equipment or equipment shall be transported until all required
tests are successfully completed and certified “ready for shipment’ by the CPCL.
 It shall be Bidder’s responsibility to modify and /or replace any hardware, equipment or NIR if the
specified functions are not completely achieved satisfactorily during factory testing & acceptance test
without any cost and time implication.
 Once FAT is completed satisfactorily, Bidder shall arrange for transportation of system to the site.
 The system shall be thoroughly checked and tested prior to the shipment to assure correct design,
construction and proper operation. The bidder shall integrate & complete FAT of the complete system
at Bidder’s / manufacturer’s works.
 The CPCL reserves the right to be involved and satisfy himself at each and every stage of inspection
and testing.
 If physical FAT is not possible due to unforeseen situation, bidder to offer virtual FAT.

9. INSTALLATION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING BY BIDDER AT SITE

 Bidder’s responsibility at site shall include supervision of all activities necessary to complete the job as
per the specification for mounting NIR Analyser, Sample Handling system and loose supplied items,
equipment and accessories
 The date intimation for supervision of Installation & Commissioning from the CPCL EIC shall be within
two weeks from the start of job activity. Bidder to plan accordingly
 Installation & integration of all loose supplied NIR components and electronics inside the Location
 Checking of all interconnection cabling.
 Checking of hardware configuration, overall system functioning.
 Supervision of system checkout activities.
38/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 18 of 25

 Pre-commissioning and commissioning of the complete NIR system by the bidder.
 Site Modelling to be done for Multiple samples with the help of Lab NIR Analyser on Returnable basis
till the completion of all activities required for the commissioning of NIR Analyser within the duration of
5 Months

10. FINAL SITE ACCEPTANCE TESTING

 The site acceptance test shall be carried out in the presence of CPCL representative and Engineer-in-
charge or his authorized representative.
 Bidder shall carry out the following functional tests, as a part of site acceptance test as a minimum: -
 Hardware verification as per approved NIR system drawings.
 Visual and mechanical check-up for proper workmanship, identification, ferruling, nameplates etc.
 Demonstration of all operation & diagnostics.
 Checking of calibration of supplied NIR.
 Checking of proper functioning of all other peripherals like sample handling system.
 CPCL shall take over the system after uninterrupted, satisfactory, trouble free, fully functional
performance test for a period of one month after successful commissioning of NIR system in totality &
completion of all SAT punch points at the site. Minutes of meeting shall be made for recording the date
of handover of the NIR system

11. WARRANTY

 Vendor shall provide minimum of two years of warranty on complete analyser system and SHS from the
date of handing over of the system after PGTR including the consumable Items.
 Vendor shall be responsible for the manufacture in respect of proper design, quality workmanship and
operation of all the equipment, accessories etc. supplied by them for the complete analyser system.
 It shall be obligatory on the part of the vendor to modify and / or replace any hardware and modify the
operating application and diagnostic software free of cost, in case any malfunction is revealed even
during online operation after taking over by owner within the warranty period. During the warranty period
vendor shall visit the site once in every Quarter and ensure the calibration/proper functioning of the
analyser.
 In the event of any malfunction of the analyser system hardware/ system software during warranty period,
experienced service engineer shall be made available at site along with the necessary spates within 48
hours of the receipt of such information from CPCL
 Bidder to replace the faulty items under warranty. This warranty replacement time shall be completed
within 2 weeks. It is Bidder's responsibility to ensure that sufficient spares are kept ready with them for
warranty replacement within 2 weeks.
 Items supplied as warranty replacement shall also be covered under the 2-year warranty period.
 Refurbished cards or components are not accepted for replacement.
 In case of any modules getting obsolete or support withdrawn by OEM, it shall be replaced with suitable
successor model during the PWCAMC/warranty period.
 Penalty of Rs. 1000 will be levied for every day of delay in reporting to site after the 48 hrs. time or every
day of delay in delivering the replacement item against warranty after 2 weeks' time, per component to
be replaced.
 24 x 7 telephonic and remote support shall be provided during warranty period.
 Vendor to note that, separate purchase order will be placed for PWCAMC

39/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 19 of 25

12. PWCAMC


Post Warranty Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (PWCAMC):

 Vendor shall have the capability to provide comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) service
after successful commissioning of the system i.e SAT. Proof for the same shall be submitted.
 In CAMC, supply of all the required spares and consumables shall be in vendor’s scope.


The PWCAMC scope shall broadly comprise of:

 Vendor shall provide total maintenance of the supplied system including all hardware / software along with
all the related accessories including bought out items for system.
 Travel, Lodging & Boarding of the service engineer during the CAMC period shall be under vendor’s scope.
 The maintenance contract shall include a minimum monthly one visit per Analyser / OEM recommendation
for preventive maintenance and any number of visits in case of system breakdown/emergency.
 In-case the OEM recommended calibration frequency is less than a month, vendor to consider the
frequency of visit as per calibration frequency as minimum.
 In addition to OEM recommendation, the frequency of calibration shall be decided based on the analyzer
performance over a period of time.
 The scope of work shall be performed by trained analyzer specialists for maintenance, operations and
performance improvement of analyzers. Vendor shall ensure the calibration / proper functioning of
Analysers, Sample handling system and other associated systems.
 Attending failure immediately by repair or replacement of the failed component. Provide system
maintenance and repair of system or workmanship defects during the contract period free of charge (parts
and labor).
 Service or maintenance personnel shall be able to receive 24-hour help-desk technical support.
 In the event of any malfunction of the analysers, experienced service engineer shall be made available
at site within 24 hours on the receipt of such information from CPCL. Contractor shall carry out the
job/activity after obtaining the proper permit from the user/ operation department. Contractor Engineers
will follow the safety rules, statutory rules and regulations, labor laws etc., of CPCL.
 Contractors engineer and technicians shall report to the CPCL engineer/ Engineer- in-charge for reporting
/performing the activities.
 Contractor needs to go through CPCL safety training before working in plant area and avail valid safety
certificate and gate pass.
 A quarterly review meeting of management of Contractor with CPCL will be held at site to assess the
performance of Analyzers and preparation of action plan for immediate implementation.
 In case of extreme emergency of the job requirement for working during holidays, compensatory off can
be given for the number of worked days in a month.
 Calibration shall be witnessed by CPCL officer in-charge for the purpose of establishing availability.
 For any modification in the analyzer system the same shall be detailed and carried out after approval
from M/s CPCL.


Preventive Maintenance Visits:

 The vendor’s certified experienced Field Service engineer shall visit the site once every month per
Analyser for preventive maintenance checks.

40/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR NIR ANALYSERS

Page 20 of 25

 The vendor shall prepare a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) and calibration procedure for
the analyzer in-line with OEM recommendation. Vendor to submit the OEM recommended SOP &
calibration procedure.
 The software check shall include minor modifications to improve existing application performance,
backup operations and software updates (latest releases). All consumables required for the analyzer
functioning shall be under the vendor’s scope.
 As a minimum requirement, following activities shall be carried out during the visit:
a) Monthly performance checks of the analyzer.
b) Calibration of analyzers as per OEM recommended procedure for zero and span concentrations
using the certified calibration blend and same shall be made available by vendor on return able
basis.
c)
Servicing of the analyzers and the sample handling system.
d) Replacement of analyzer consumables, filter cleaning etc.
e) Report and attend any problem if found during the checking of the system.
f)
Prepare and submit the service report in tabular format for the analyzer after every visit to the
Engineer-in-charge.
g) Data obtained from the calibration checks and copies of associated Quality Assurance and
calibration documentation, shall be submitted to the Engineer-in- charge.
h) Complete
periodic
overhaul
of
the
analysers,
inspection
of
the
sample
handling,
cleaning/replacement of filters as per schedule, environmental operating condition checks,
calibration checks and detailed reporting.
i)
Regular replacement of analyzer consumable as per requirement / agreed procedures.
j)
Checking of leaks in system.
k)
Checking of gas cylinder pressure, remove empty cylinder and Connect new cylinder, if required.
Future cylinder requirement is to be given at least one week in advance.
l)
Vendor shall ensure the reliability of the analyzers. The reading should co-relate to standard
mixtures, lab results depending on method of lab measurement.
m) Vendor shall maintain LOG BOOK and update records of each analyzer for all activities like
calibration, faults observed, action taken, next cal. Schedule and spares utilized and available
spares. All these records as per CPCL approved formats.
n) Cleaning of site after/during the servicing/ maintenance job to maintain the necessary ambience.
o) Working hours shall be 8 hours’ basis, 6 days a week. Vendor’s engineer/technician shall follow
CPCL list of declared holidays.


Breakdown Maintenance:

 Troubleshooting of all instrument failures, in case the problem cannot be identified by the site engineers
then analyzer specialist to be organized as early as possible. If problem cannot have solved by specialist
and need OEM support in those circumstances methods of action will be mutually agreed and discussed


Emergency Visits:

 In the event of any failure / malfunctioning of the system, experienced service engineer shall be made
available at the site within 24hrs on receipt of such information from the owner.
 The engineer shall attend the problem and submit a root cause analysis report for the failure.
 There shall not be any limit on number of visits on emergency call.
41/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR FT NIR ANALYSERS

Page 21 of 25


Vendor’s Scope of Supply:

 All tools, test instruments and tackles required to maintain the analyzers shall be in Vendor’s scope.
 Minor consumable like Teflon tape, insulation tape and cleaning agents shall be arranged by vendor.
a) Supply of all required spares & consumables shall be in vendor’s scope. If any spares used
from CPCL stock due to emergency, then the same shall be replaced by Vendor within 7 days
with no cost to CPCL. Replaced spare shall be new and unused.
b) All personal protective equipment’s like safety helmet, safety shoes and safety belt required
for working inside battery area shall be in vendor’s scope.
c) Vendor shall ensure availability analyzer specialist Engineer trained from manufacturer works
at CPCL Refinery Site during contract period for carrying out day to day maintenance and
troubleshooting of analyzers as mentioned above.
d) CPCL shall reserve the right to seek the replacement of another engineer, in case of their
deputed site engineer / technician being found not suitable.
e) Vendor engineer to perform general shift duties of 9 hours’ duration (08:00 AM to 5:00 PM) and
also attend to the problems on odd hours if required to meet the exigencies.
f) During emergencies, the maximum working hours are limited to 12 Hours for any of the vendor
staff.
g) However, for any ongoing and continuation jobs and in situation where analyzers are down, the
vendor is expected to work on need basis with analyzer specialist to meet the 95% availability.


Reporting:

a) Generate calibration report strictly as per the format given by CPCL and as per the direction of
Engineer In-charge specifically mentioning the Drift, Faults, Action taken, Spares used, if any.
b) Maintain the records for monthly calibration, preventive maintenance and breakdown
maintenance.
c) Record all the observations and action taken in a register duly signed and certified by CPCL
engineer.
d) AMC start up initial activities following jobs are to be completed within 15 days of start-up of
contract jobs.
e) Yearly preventive maintenance schedule to be submitted.
f) List of annual spares / consumables consumption, adequate stock of spares required for all
the analyzers, covered under this contract to be submitted.

13. TRAINING REQUIREMENT

 Bidder shall arrange for 1-week training at CPCL site on NIR model building and maintenance.
 Bidder shall arrange for training on hardware and software maintenance at M/S CPCL site for 5 batches
of one or two days each.

14. PACKING AND SHIPPING


Packing
 Before packing, all openings of instruments, including the cable entrances of cable Connection shall be
properly coveted or plugged to prevent foreign matters from entering during transit and subsequent
storage.
42/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR FT NIR ANALYSERS

Page 22 of 25

 Flanges and screws shall be protected to prevent damage from or entrance of foreign Material
Instruments shall be packed in accordance with the modern practice consistent with Destination and
method of transport employed so as to avoid any physical damage to any Part of the supply.
 Total weight and Purchaser's Item No. shall be clearly marked on the crates.
 Maximum dimensions and weight of packing shall not exceed the specified transportation Limits.


Shipping

 One copy of the following documents shall be shipped with the Instruments.
 GA/ IA, drawings, BOM, Installation, operation and maintenance & service manual, including detailed
information.
 Detail Packing list of all instruments and accessories.
 The instruments ready for shipment shall be marked according to instructions issued by the Purchaser
and attached to the requisition.
 System delivery shall be made within 5 months from the date of order placement.

15. PAYMENT TERMS:

75% - Delivery of analyser System at site
10% - After Complete System Installation
10% - Model building, Commissioning, SAT/PGTR & System Handing over
2.5% - payable after successful completion of 1st year extended warranty
2.5% - payable after successful completion of 2nd year extended warranty
PWCAMC: For PWCAMC:
100% payment within 30 days shall be made on quarterly basis at the end of each quarter visit during
the PWCAMC period upon bills duly certified by CPCL Engineer in charge.

16. RECOMMENDED SUB VENDORS LIST

 Bidder shall supply all the items as pet the tender requirements from the recommended vendor list
given below. For those items which are not appearing in this list, bidder shall take prior approval from
CPCL, by providing requited details of the vendor for such items like credentials and previous
installation references. Supply of items from a vendor not mentioned in this list also shall be done only
with necessary prior approval from CPCL by submitting relevant documents and evidence as desired
by CPCL.

 Junction Boxes (Flameproof) & Cable gland (for hazardous area)
1. Baliga lighting equipments pvt.ltd. India
2. Ex-protecta India
3. Flexpro electrical Pvt.ltd. India
4. Flameproof equipments pvt. Ltd. India
5. Shyam switchgears Pvt. Ltd.
6. Prompt ltd
43/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR FT NIR ANALYSERS

Page 23 of 25

 Multicable transit
1. Brattberg
2. Roxtec
 Tubes
1. Sandvik
2. Swagelok India
3. Circor(Hoke)
4. Parker
 Fittings
1. Swagelok India
2. Circor (Hoke)
3. HiLok
4. Parker
 Valves
1. Swagelok India
2. Emerson Process Management India Ltd
3. HiLok
4. Circor(Hoke)
5. Parker
 MCB
1. Havells
2. Indo-asian
3. Schneider
4. Legrand
5. Hager
6. MDS
7. Anchor
 Programmable Logic Controller
1. Allen Bradley India Ltd
2. Siemens
3. Honeywell Ltd
4. HIMA
5. Triconex
6. Schneider Electric Company
 PC
1. HP
2. Dell
3. Fujitsu
 Pressure / Flow / Temperature
1. Emerson
2. Yokogawa
3. Honeywell
 Radar Level Transmitter
1. Emerson
2. VEGA
3. Magnetro
44/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR FT NIR ANALYSERS

Page 24 of 25

17. BIDDER DOCUMENT REQUIREMENT

 Three sets of following documents to be submitted during shipping:

S/N

Description
Along with
the offer
Post order For
Approval/Review/
Information
As Built
1.
Specifications sheet duly filled in as token
of Acceptance

X

2.
Make and Model of the offered instrument
along with DATASHEET & GAD

X

X

3.
NIR GA drawings
X
X
4.
Detailed BOM

X
X
5.
Sampling system schematic
X
X
X
6.
Utility Consumption details
X
X
X
7.
Carrier gas/ Calibration cylinder details
X
X
X
8.
Power Supply distribution

X
X
9.
System grounding details

X
X
10.
Interconnection cable details

X

11.
Filled in deviation/ compliance Statement
X

12.
Complete technical literature and
catalogues of the offered instrument
along with accessories along with
complete de codification sheet.

X

X
13.
Proven Track Record
X

14.
Guarantee/Warranty Certificates

X
15.
Other test certificates

X
16.
Packing list

X
17.
Operation & Maintenance instruction
manuals

X
18.
Calibration certificate

X
19.
Logistic Support Certificate
X

45/197

ANNEXURE-I TECHNICAL SPCIFICATIONS FOR FT NIR ANALYSERS

Page 25 of 25

18.
CERTIFICATE FOR LOGISTIC SUPPORT

(To be signed by Bidder’s principal’s corporate level signatory on company letter Head)

I, on behalf of M/s.
confirm that the Gas Chromatograph quoted by M/s.

for CPCL Manali, Tamil Nadu (India) against material requisition shall
continue to be supported by us and quoted Gas chromatograph shall not be withdrawn from Indian
market as a matter of corporate policy.

I, further confirm that in case of placement of order by M/S. CPCL on M/S.
,
M/S. CPCL shall be supported in providing back-up engineering, maintenance support, and spare part
support for a period of not less than ten (10) years from the date of placement of order.

(SIGNATURE WITH SEAL)
46/197

47/197
ANNEXURE-IIA

48/197

49/197

50/197

51/197

52/197

53/197

54/197

55/197

56/197

57/197

58/197

59/197

60/197

61/197

62/197

63/197

64/197

65/197

66/197

67/197
CPCL/TPI
ANNEXURE-IIB

68/197
CPCL/TPI

69/197
CPCL/TPI

70/197
CPCL/TPI

Page 1 of 5

Annexure-IIIA
Data Sheet of Dual Stream-FT-NIR Analyzer (Online Process Analyzer)

General
1
Quantity
1 (One)
2
Analyzer Type
Dual-Stream (2 Streams) FT-Near Infrared
Analyzer (NIR) in BS-IV and BS-VI Headers of
CPCL OM&S Unit.
for online measurement of Gasoline
1.RON,
2.MON
3.RVP
4.E70
5.E100
6.E150
7.FBP
8.BENZENE
9.AROMATICS
10.OLEFINS,
11. RESIDUE,
12. DENSITY/SG13.E180
for feedback to CPCL blend control system. NIR
analyzer shall be supplied complete with operator
interface
system,
software
and
other
items/components/ accessories to make the
system Complete. Analyser have the capability to
add additional 2 streams in Future as a Minimum.
3
Location
Inside Existing Analyzer shelter
Hazardous
Location
4
Electrical
Area
Classification
IEC Zone1 Gas Group IIA / IIB/IIC, Temp. class
T3

Probe
(Stream1& 2)
5
Type (Stream1 & 2)
a) Sample shall be extracted from the line with the
help of Sample Probe. Sample probe design shall
allow true representative sample extraction from
the line. In situ type probe is not acceptable.
b) Sample probe shall be manual retractable
type i.e. it shall be possible to remove sample
probe on-line for cleaning / maintenance, with
non-fly off design
6
Probe Material/ Rating SS316/ 300# (Stream1 & 2)
7
Process Connection
1.5”, ANSI 300# (Stream1 & 2)
8
Line Isolation Valve
1.5”, 300# (by Vendor) (Stream1 & 2)
9
Facing and Finish
RF, 125 AARH
10
Flange Material
ASTM A-105
11
Installation
Vertical in horizontal line
12
Probe
Length
/
Diameter
Vendor to specify (Line Size 10 Inch)
71/197
Note-12
Please refer the deviation sheet

Page 2 of 5

13
Probe Filter
Required.
14
Filter Material
Min. SS316
Sample
Conditioning
System(Stream1
& 2)
15
Type of Sampling
Extractive
a) The purpose of Sample Conditioning System
is
to
deliver
FT-NIR
analyzer
(spectrophotometer) a clean, bubble free and true
representative sample.
Primary Sample Conditioning shall be provided at
the sample take off. Subsequent Sample
Conditioning shall be carried out before the
sample
enters
Spectrophotometer.
The
secondary sample conditioning system shall be
located outside the analyzer shelter.
b) The sample shall be filtered, pressure and
temperature
conditioned,
degassed
and
prepared to provide the analyzer a uniform
sample, avoiding extraneous effects these can
cause the system to provide erroneous results.
c) Vendor shall note that water may be present in
the product streams and should design the
sample conditioner system to take care of the
presence of water.
16
Sample module
Redundant Fast loop pumps shall be provided by
vendor. Vendor’s scope shall include supply of all
the components, interconnecting tubing/ piping,
tube-fittings/ pipe fittings including connectors.
The sample return line and fast loop shall be
combined together by vendor and finally vendor
shall provide 1.5", 300#, RF, 125 AARH, ASTM A
105 flange connection to the return location
(Stream1 & 2)
17
Enclosure Class
All the electrical components in primary &
secondary sample conditioning system shall be
Explosion proof certified suitable for mounting in
area
specified
as
per
Electrical
Area
Classification.
18
Interconnecting tubing
/
fittings
between
probe
and
primary
/secondary
Sample
conditioning system.
Required, to be supplied by vendor
(Stream1 sample take off Nozzle to Shelter -90
Meters & Stream 2 Stream1 sample take off
Nozzle to Shelter -65 Meters)
19
Interconnecting tubing
/ fittings
between
Sample
conditioning
system and Analyzer
Required, to be supplied by vendor
20
Material of tubing
SS
316L
as
a
minimum
(Vendor
must
categorically confirm in the offer that tubing
material
is
compatible
with
the
sample
composition and condition)
72/197

Page 3 of 5

21
Material of fittings
SS 316 and suitable for tubing, Fittings shall be
double compression type.
22
Sample
Recovery
System
Common Sample Recovery System for Stream 1
and 2 With Dual Redundant pumps, Level
Transmitters, Discharge Gauges.
23
Sample
Validation
System with Mounting
Skid
Separate for Each Streams with Collection tank
and Level gauges.
Analyzer
System
24
Analyzer Type

FT-NIR. The analyzer shall consist of
spectrophotometer, industrial grade portable
computer as engineering interface system,
chemo metric modeling software, necessary
control system (I/O section) to integrate the
analyzer
system,
analyzer
stability
&
performance monitoring system, and modem for
remote system diagnostics & trouble shooting.
Shall perform the analysis within the the near-
infrared (NIR) portion
of the electromagnetic spectrum
25
Enclosure Class
Analyzer shall be explosion proof suitable for
area specified as per Overall Area Classification,
If flameproof is not available as manufacturer
standard, purged enclosure as per NFPA 496
shall be provided.
26
Location of Analyzer
Inside Analyzer Shelter
27
Location of Analyzer
Shelter
IEC Zone1 Gas Group IIA / IIB/IIC, T3
28
Measurement range
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
29
Accuracy
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
30
Repeatability
0.007 cm-1 or Better
31
Wave Length Range
900–2500 nm or Better
32
Reproducibility
0.04 cm-1
33
Laser Source
Class I (Long Life)
34
Power Supply
110 V AC ±10%, 50 Hz±3Hz UPS for analyzer,
industrial grade portable PC and its accessories.
230VAC ±10%, 50 Hz±3Hz Non UPS for
analyzer cabinet lighting (derived from 415VAC,
3 Phase by Vendor).
35
Memory
Non-volatile type or RAM with battery back up
36
Self-diagnostic facility
Required
37
Outputs
4-20mA Output shall be available for all 10
Parameters and in addition,
-1 no. serial RS 485 output with Modbus protocol
(RTU) and RS485
-Analyzer in calibration contact (Pot Free)
73/197

Page 4 of 5

-Common fault alarm contact (Pot Free).
-Analyzer conc. high alarm contact (Pot free)
-Analyzer low flow alarm
-Outlier detection alarm
38
Power Consumption
Vendor to specify
39
Utilities requirement
DM Water, Steam, N2 and Instrument air shall be
provided. Other than these, any additional
requirement shall be in bidder’s scope for
warranty and post warranty CAMC period.
40
Test Procedure
ASTM/ISO/IP
Service
conditions
41
Fluid Conditions
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
42
Fluid composition
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
43
Pressure
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
44
Temperature
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
45
Density
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
46
Cp / Cv
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
47
Vapor Press.
Refer Process Data Sheet Annexure-IB
Certification
48
Statutory Certificates
Required
Other
49
Model
Vendor to specify
50
Manufacturer
Vendor to specify

1. Supply of all utilities like power supply, instrument air, service water, N2, Steam etc and further
distribution with all accessories like redundant power supply pack, regulators, adaptors, pipe, pipe
fittings etc shall be in vendor’s scope of supply. All the items required like pump etc. for pumping
the sample back to process line shall be in vendor’s scope.

2. Analyzer response time shall be less than 30 Sec/Channel.

3. Process data shall be as per process data sheet enclosed as Annexure-IB in this requisition.

4. Since the sample is returned to the same pressure/ Temperature conditions as sample take off
point, Vendor must consider sample pump while designing the sample return system. Preferably
sample pumps are to be located at Analyzer Shelter end. Fast loop pumps should trip on low
sample flow. Sample handling system shall be designed considering safety against over pressure
and over temperature.

5. Analyzer shall be equipped with an arrangement to pump back the sample to parent header at
the same location. Suitable Sample recovery tank with Level Based Cutin and Cutoff pumps to
be considered.

6. The element material shall be SS316 as a minimum. However, bidder must offer the same as pet
their standard product suitable for specific service.

7. Sample conditioning system shall be independent for each MS header as shown in drawing
attached as Annexure - IC.

8. Data provided are typical numbers and do not necessarily represents all ranges of operating
Conditions.
74/197
NIR-O
Process Insights
1500 W

Page 5 of 5

9. Certificate of Compliance, Hazardous area certificate, Calibration certificate —2 copies each,
shall be Provided along with supply of material.

10. Bidder shall submit suitable CCOE Certificate for the Analyser and other components.

11. Bidder shall refer the Analyser Schematic Drawing as shown in Annexure - IC.

75/197
12. Bidder shall offer either DG-NIR or FT-NIR Analysers.

Page 1 of 2

Annexure-IIIB: Process Data Sheet
Item Name

FT-NIR Analyser for OM&S Unit
Fluid Handled

Measuring Properties

BENZENE, AROMATICS, OLEFINS, RON, MON, RVP, DISTILLATION Recovery @ 70,100,150,180,
SP GR/Density, FBP, Residue

Type
FT-NIR
Operating Conditions
Pressure
Kg/cm2
1.8 to 2.8
Temperature
DEG C
Ambient
Design Conditions
Pressure
Kg/cm2
18.2
Temperature
DEG C
65
Dual Stream Analyser
Stream Header Size
MS Stream 1 – Size 10 inch
MS Stream 2 – Size 10 inch
Fluid Properties at P&T
FCC
Gasoline
CCR
Reformate
Isomerate
Heavy
Naphtha from
OHCU
Light Naphtha
from OHCU
Syn. Naphtha
from DHDS
Syn. Naphtha
from DHDT
Liquid Density
KG/M3
695-720
805-815
657-668
750-770
695-720
720-750
695-730
Liquid Viscosity
cP
0.30
0.54
0.23
0.34
0.30
0.32
0.31

1. The Data Below is given as a reference, however it is the bidders responsibility to arrange a Laboratory type FT-NIR Analyser and capture
all the sample parameters through repetitive sampling and modelling of the analyser for configuration of range and other process data.
2. 4-20mA to be generated for all parameters in addition to Modbus TCP/IP.
76/197

Page 2 of 2

PARAMETER
STREAM -1
STREAM2
ACCURACY
RANGE
UNIT

MIN
NOR
MAX
MIN
NOR
MAX

DENSITY
0.7006
0.7024
0.7031
0.7563
0.7714
0.7748
+/- 1%
0.65 to 0.85
gm/cc
RVP
62.3
63
63.5
42
47
50.30

25 to 150
Kpa
DISTILLATE REC@70
DEG C
52.1
53.4
54.4
13.5
18.3
23
+/- 1%
0 to 100%
Vol%
DISTILLATE REC@100
DEG C
73.3
74.2
74.7
36.6
43.3
50.2
+/- 1%
0 to 100%
Vol%
DISTILLATE REC@150
DEG C
91.1
91.3
91.7
75/88.88
88.8
91.8
+/- 1%
0 to 100%
Vol%
OLEFINS
18/21/25.70
34.29
34.55
0
0.55
2.74
+/- 1%
0-50
Vol %
AROMATICS
8.22
8.32
10.60/35
41.05
42.54
48.95
+/- 1%
0-85
Vol %
BENZENE
0.25
0.26
0.27
1
1.05
1.18
+/- 0.02%
0-7
Vol %
RON
90.1/91
90.2
90.5
90.5
93.4
95.7/97
+/- 0.1%
65-115
OCT No
MON
81
81.161
81.2
82.7
83.8
85.864
+/- 0.2%
75 to100
OCT No
DISTILLATE REC@180
DEG C
90

+/- 1%
0 to 100%
Vol%
RESIDUE

2
+/- 1%
0-10
Vol %
FBP

210
+/- 1%
150-210
Deg C
77/197

A1:AT79B2A1:AT90
3"
Modbus TCP/IP
3"
SAMPLE HANDLING SYSTEM#3
NOTE
1
ALL FILTERS SHALL BE DUAL
2
CHILLER/HEATER/FILTERS/BALL VLV/NRV/PSV/TSV/FLOWMETER /TEMP TRANSMITTER
3
COMMON SAMPLE RECOVERY SYSTEM FOR BOTH ANALYSERS
4
N2,STEAM,IA,DM WATER IN CPCL SCOPE
SAMPLE RETURN HEADER
3"
VALIDATION SYSTEM
AND MOUNTING SKID
FOR STREAM31 &
STREAM#2
STREAM 1 FAST LOOP SKID
STREAM 2 FAST LOOP SKID
OUTSIDE SHELTER
SECONDARY SAMPLE HANDLING
SYSTEM
SAMPLE RECOVERY SYSTEM WITH
REDUNDNANT PUMP & LT (Size of tank shall be
designed considering Analysers With Pump Auto Cut in
/Cut off)
SECONDARY SAMPLE HANDLING
SYSTEM
STREAM #1
FAST LOOP
SKID (REDUNDANT PUMPS)
4-20mA for Each Analyser Output
ANNEXURE-FLOW SCHEMATICS FOR DUAL STREAM GASOLINE FT-NIR ANALYSER
BS-VI- STREAM # 2
NEAR FIELD
OUTSIDE SHELTER
STREAM #2
FAST LOOP
SKID (REDUNDANT PUMPS)
PRIMARY SAMPLE HANDLING
SYSTEM (NOTE-2)
OUTSIDE SHELTER
OUTSIDE SHELTER
PRIMARY & SECONDARY SAMPLE HANDLING SYSTEM STREAM #1
PRIMARY & SECONDARY SAMPLE HANDLING SYSTEM STREAM #2
PRIMARY SAMPLE HANDLING
SYSTEM (NOTE-2)
FT-NIR
ANALYSER
DENSITY
RON
MON
E70
E100
E150
BENZENE
OLEFINS
FBP
RVP
AROMATICS
ETC....
BS-IV STREAM # 1 (MS)
NEAR FIELD
EXISTING ANALYSER SHELTER
OUTSIDE SHELTER
INSIDE SHELTER
OUTSIDE SHELTER
78/197
10"
10"
10"
ANNEXURE-IIIC