Quotation Number: UNKNOWN
BOQ Status: FOUND

Basic Price shall mean the amounts payable by the Buyer to the Seller for performance of the Scope of Work determined in accordance with
Clause 4, which shall be inclusive of applicable Taxes (except GST), packing, forwarding, freight and insurance charges, costs in respect of
materials, consumables, tools and tackles, manufacturing, margin, overheads, charges for bank guarantees, charges for supervisory activities
and all other costs associated with performance of the Scope of Work and other obligations under the PO Documents, unless otherwise
specified in the Purchase Order.
Buyer shall mean the company issuing the Purchase Order, including its legal successors and assigns.
CGST Act shall mean the Central Goods and Services Act, 2017.
CGST Rules shall mean the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017.
Change in Law shall mean the occurrence of any of the following after the Effective Date:
(a) enactment, modification or repeal of any new applicable law in India;
(b) any change in the interpretation or enforcement of any applicable law by a decision rendered by the Supreme Court of India; or
(c) increase or decrease in the relevant rates of applicable GST in India,
provided that "Change in Law" shall not include any:
(i) change in the interpretation or application of any applicable law except as provided in (b) above;
(ii) enactment, modification, repeal, interpretation or application of any applicable law of India which increases market prices of Goods,
commodities, raw materials, labour and services in general;
(iii) such event of Change in Law listed in points (a), (b) and (c) above, which occurs during the time period of delay in the performance of the
Seller's obligations, for reasons not attributable to the Buyer; and
(iv) implication on the PO Price arising out of currency fluctuations.
Codes and Standards shall mean the latest applicable international and Indian codes and standards that would be applicable for goods of a
similar type and specification as the Goods.
Commissioning shall mean the successful operation of the Goods at full load (or as may be applicable) in accordance with the terms of the PO
Documents and the achievement of the parameters specified in the Specifications.
Commissioning Spares shall mean all such spares which are essential for Commissioning that are to be provided by the Seller to the Buyer as
part of the Goods to be supplied under the PO Documents.
Confidential Information shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 35.1.
Contract Performance Bank Guarantee shall mean a single, unconditional, irrevocable first demand bank guarantee provided by the Seller to the
Buyer in terms of Clause 7, to secure the performance by the Seller of the Scope of Work, for a time period as specified in the Purchase Order.
Contract Performance cum Performance Bank Guarantee shall mean a single, unconditional, irrevocable first demand bank guarantee provided
by the Seller to the Buyer in terms of Clause 7, to secure the performance by the Seller for the entire Scope of Work, including the Seller's
obligations during the Defect Liability Period, as specified in the Purchase Order.
Control shall mean, with reference to a Person, the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power or authority to direct or cause the direction
of the day to day affairs, management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by any agreement with
respect to voting of securities, by any other agreement conferring control over management or policy decisions, by virtue of the power to
control the composition of the board of directors or managers of such Person, or otherwise.
Defect Liability Period shall mean the period more specifically set out in the Purchase Order, during which the Seller shall remain liable, at its
own cost, and expense for all repairs or replacement of any Defects.
Defect(s) shall mean any defect or damage to the Goods (including any portion supplied or executed by any Sub-Contractor) on account of: (i)
non-conformance of the Goods with the Specifications; or (ii) any faulty design, engineering or workmanship, which affects the ability of the
Goods to comply with the Specifications on a consistent and reliable basis.
Delay Liquidated Damages shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 17.1.
Delivery shall mean the loading, transport, delivery and such other ancillary or related services required to be performed by the Seller or its
representatives for the safe and undamaged delivery of the Goods (or any part thereof) including all spares, accessories and tools and tackles
(as may be applicable) to the Buyer at the Delivery Point, in accordance with the Delivery Term and other terms in the PO Documents.
Delivery Point shall mean the location at which the Seller shall Deliver the Goods, as specified in the Purchase Order.
Delivery Schedule shall mean the time specified in the Purchase Order (as extended in accordance with the terms herein), within which the
Delivery as a whole (or of a part of the Goods where a separate time for completion of delivery of such part has been prescribed) is to be
completed in accordance with the terms of the PO Documents.
Page 5 -of- 15
PO No : 1200989746
Delivery Term shall mean the delivery term, including any applicable Incoterm, on the basis of which the Seller shall complete the Delivery.
Disclosing Party shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 35.1.
Drawings shall mean all drawings referred to in the PO Documents, along with any modification of such drawings (as approved in writing by the
Buyer) and shall include: (i) drawings furnished by the Buyer or the Buyer's consultant to the Seller; and (ii) engineering data and drawings
submitted by the Seller during the progress of the Scope of Work.
Effective Date shall mean the date of issuance of the Purchase Order by the Buyer to the Seller, unless otherwise specified in the Purchase
Order.
ESG shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 19.1.
Force Majeure shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Clause 29.1.
Good Industry Practice shall mean standards, methods, techniques and procedures that are employed by leading, reasonable and prudent
suppliers in India engaged in supply of goods which are similar to the Goods.
Goods shall mean the plant, equipment, machinery, materials, apparatus and things of all kinds to be supplied (including spare parts and tools
and tackles, as applicable) by the Seller as per the Scope of Work and Specifications set out under the PO Documents.
GST shall mean the applicable goods and services tax and/or any compensation or cess payable in terms of the CGST Act, the State Goods and
Services Tax Acts passed by the States in the Republic of India, Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, the Union Territory Goods and
Services Tax, 2017, the Goods and Service Tax (Compensation to States) Act 2017, or any other statute or ordinance issued as a part of the
regime applicable to goods and services and the rules, notifications and circulars under each of the foregoing for the time being in effect, as
applicable to the Scope of Work performed under the PO Documents.
