Quotation Number: UNKNOWN
BOQ Status: FOUND

Defined terms used herein or anywhere else in this PO, together with their respective grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall
have the meanings specified herein:
"Basic Price" means the amount payable by Buyer to Seller for purchase of Goods, including costs in respect of materials, consumables, tools
and tackles, manufacturing, packing, forwarding, freight, loading and unloading charges, insurance charges, margin, overheads, applicable Taxes
(except GST) and all other costs associated with Delivery, unless specified otherwise in STC.
"Buyer" means the company specified in this PO, including its legal successors and assigns.
"Defect" means any defect or damage to Goods on account of non-conformance of Goods with Specifications, including faulty design,
engineering or workmanship of Goods affecting the ability of Goods to comply with Specifications.
"Defect Liability Period" means the period set out in STC, during which Seller shall remain liable for all repairs or replacement of any Defects at
its own cost and expense.
"Delivery" means the loading, delivery and ancillary services to be performed by Seller or its representatives to deliver undamaged Goods at
Delivery Point, in accordance with Delivery Term and as per other applicable conditions of this PO.
"Delivery Point" means the location at which Goods shall be Delivered, as specified in STC.
"Delivery Schedule" means the schedule for Delivery as set out in STC.
"Delivery Term" means the delivery term, including any applicable Incoterm, for Delivery of Goods, as specified in STC.
"Drawings" means all drawings in respect of Goods, furnished by Buyer or Seller and approved by Buyer in writing.
"Effective Date" means the date of issuance of this PO by Buyer to Seller, unless otherwise specified in STC.
"Force Majeure" means the occurrence of any event which is: (i) beyond the reasonable control of the affected Party; (ii) unavoidable,
notwithstanding reasonable care by the affected Party; and (iii) not a result of the affected Party's negligence or failure to perform its
obligations, and which has a direct, material and adverse effect upon the affected Party's ability to perform its obligations under this PO, and
such events mean acts of God, earthquake, volcanic activity, fire, flood or other natural disasters, war, invasions, riots, terrorism, civil
disturbances or embargos.
"Goods" mean the goods, including spares, accessories, tools and tackles (as applicable) to be supplied by Seller as per the scope of work in
terms of this PO, as specified in STC.
"GST" means the applicable goods and services tax payable in terms of applicable law of India for the time being in effect, as applicable to
supply of Goods under this PO.
