Quotation Number: SQ2512E402
BOQ Status: FOUND

build quality whilst ensuring we operate in a safe and environmentally conscious way.
Adage offers complete project management services from conceptual design through pre-tender feed
study, design approval, detailed engineering, project management, procurement activities, production,
testing and commissioning, site survey, site installation, handing over as well as after sales service and
training. We offer a 24/7 technical helpline and call out facility to many of our customers.
Adage is also, one of the fastest growing Gas Analytical Company in the world with 25% CAGR over last 10
years and presently growing by 200% in every 2 years.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
With large project engineering capability, widest product portfolio and
presence in multiple countries, Adage have an Unique identity in the Global perspective for the Gas
Analytical domain.
We have a market leadership position for Process Gas Applications in the Steel Industry in India covering all
applications in Blast Furnaces, Steel Melting Shops, Coke ovens, Sinter Plants, Hot Strip Mills, CRM, Lime
Calcination Plants etc. We have proven installations in almost all Steel Plants in India including TATA STEEL,
JSW, JSPL, SAIL Bhilai, Bokaro, Durgapur, Rourkela & IISCO Steel Plant, Essar Steel etc.
It is worthwhile to mention here, that we were maintaining the gas analyser systems in TATA Steel
Jamshedpur & KPO from 2008 to till now for maintenance of different make and model of gas analysers &
sample handling systems. Proper AMC in the STEEL Industry has given immense benefit in terms of Safety,
Process Optimization and also savings in cost of operation.
We come to you with our inherent long experience in executing projects with Gas Analyzers and our long
involvement in Maintenance of these Analyzers at TATA STEEL, RINL Vizag, SAIL Bhilai, SAIL IISCO, JSPL
Units, JSW Units, Reliance and many more. ADAGE has a dedicated pool of Specialist Engineers with
desired competence level and skill set to provide services and maintain these specialized Analyzers. Our
Engineers have been trained at various levels at our HQ in SIEMENS AG Karlsruhe on Gas Analyzers to
extend competent Technical Services and Support.
Our State-of-the-art application Lab and the Regional Repair Centre (RRC) is under a joint investment from
SIEMENS AG Germany. This is one of its kind facilities available in India to extend all configuration, repairs,
spare parts replacement and other associated activities for SIEMENS Analyzers. This gives us the unique
advantage to extend prompt all round support and services for our installations in India.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
We have more than 200+ Specialist Engineers and a modern state of the art Factory in Goa. We have
already installed more than 5,000 Analyser Systems & more than 10,000 Analyzers in India. At the present
moment, we enjoy a leadership position in the Indian Industry. We are also the largest exporter of Gas
Analytical Systems from India to over 40 countries in Europe, Africa, Middle East, Far East and South
America.
Thanking you and assuring you our best services and attention at all times.
Yours faithfully,
For Adage Automation Pvt. Limited
Satya Prakash Dhaked Prasad Mukherjee
dhaked@adage-automation.com pm@adage-automation.com
+91 9234146689 +91 9867630715
ADAGE- GOA ADAGE- GOA
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
TECHNICAL SCOPE
We shall carry out schedule Non-comprehensive maintenance for Union CV analyser for the period of
one year.
I.
Maintenance of Analyser & Systems shall include the following;
M/s Adage Engineer will check the following during priventive maintenance visits.
1. Functioning of all system and sub-system of analyser, e.g. pumps, probes, filters, sensors,
main analyser, power supplies etc.
2. Preventive maintenance of probes and taping point.
3. Flushing & cleaning of the sample lines, leak checks, temperature and suction levels etc.
4. Preventive maintenance of Sample Handling System including filters, internal tubes etc. Back
purging of the filters/tube will be done as recommended in schedule (Whichever is earlier)
depending upon requirement.
5. To monitor any corrosion and take suitable measures to prevent them. In order to avoid
corrosion to probes and other parts of the system, it would require routine inspection.
6. Functioning of all the accessories connected with the system will be checked.
7. Functional checking and calibration of the total system.
8. The systems shall be operated and maintained on regular basis.
9. Checking the healthiness of such as PLC's, Panel views etc. connected with the system.
10. Calibration of the analysers with the help of suitable standard gases of appropriate range and
duly certified if required.
11. Required calibration cylinder shall be arrnge by M/s TATA Steel.
12. Verify room environment and report to M/s TATA Steel for doing the needful, if needed.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
13. Engineer will submit all functional reports to incharge who
will consult periodically with Designated Person of Operating/instrument Department.
14. The maintenance data collected during these regular visits will be suitably plotted in the OEM
maintenance Charts to forecast preventive & breakdown maintenance as well as replacement.
15. The spares required for - repairing as well as consumables required for normal
operation/maintenance of the systems shall be arrange by M/s TATA Steel.
16. Working time shall be as per industrial norms i.e. 8 hrs. per day.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
II. Exclusions to the AMC Agreement:
A) Exclusions -The AMC does not include the following:
❖
Repair of damage resulting from accident, neglect or misuse (including absence of voltage
protection), environmental stresses including dust/water/ storm or any cause other than
ordinary use.
❖
Performing service in connection with relocation of machines or adding or removing
accessories, devices or addition of cards & other peripheral devices.
❖
Electrical /other work external to system & other devices not covered by this agreement.
❖
Requirement of spares.
❖
Required calibration gas cylinder.
❖
Incase of supporting manpower required for house keeping and other mechanical &
electrical work shall be arrange by M/s TATA Steel.
B) Care of equipment
M/s TATA Steel. shall give full access to the equipment to enable the M/s Adage to provide
maintenance services & make available to their representative, appropriate personnel from
the M/s TATA Steel who are familiar with plant & provide suitable working space & facilities as
well as storage space for keeping of maintenance equipment & spare if the need arises.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
SUMMARY OF CHARGES FOR AMC
MONTHLY AMC CHARGES FOR ONE YEAR CONTRACT
SR.
NO Description
Qty
Unit Rate Rs. per
month
Total Order Value
Rs. per month
1
AMC For CV Analyser ptiventive maintenance visit
8
Rs. 17,955.00
Rs. 1,43,640.00
Special Note
1. Our engineer will perform maintenance/inspection activities of 4 nos system as per schedule and we will
raise the service invoice accordingly.
2. Other 4 system our engineer will perform the maintenance activities based on requirement and raise the
invoice on pro-rata basis. For the same deduction for availability & reliability shall be not applicable.
3. Our engineer will calibrate the CV analyser as per schedule, any deduction for calibration deviation shall be
not applicable.
4. We will used existing manpower for normal preventive maintenance and calibration of CV analyser, in case if
site engineer failed to rectify the issue we will depute expert engineer on priority basis.
5. There will be no deduction for CSM rating.
Ref: SQ2512E402
Date: 03-12-2025
