Scope of Work for UNION CV Analysers Calibration & Services
FY26-JVML

1. Ensure proper shifting of tools at site.
2. People involved with maintenance / calibration activity should carry maintenance
checklist along with all necessary safety documents and ensure fulfilment of the
same.
3. Tools & tackles brought for Union CV Analysers healthiness checking, calibration
and service activities by vendor should be tested and certificates should be
produced as and when demanded by JSW engineers.
4. Vendor will be intimated well in advance for carrying out Union CV analysers
calibration & maintenance activities.
5. Necessary safety gadgets like hand gloves, dust mask, safety helmet etc. is in the
scope of vendor.
6. Vendor should ensure to deploy only trained/skilled employees for carrying out
Union CV analysers healthiness checking, calibration and service activities.
7. Local conveyance (I. e. vehicle facility inside & outside the JSW) lodging & boarding
for the service engineers is in vendor scope.
8. Vendor has to do minor modifications/developments in existing Union CV
ANALYSER systems as per JSW requirement.
9. Ensure zero PPM of gas while executing the maintenance/ calibration practices.
Keep the doors & windows in open condition.
10. Proper cleaning of panel exterior to be done with cotton waste or any cloth.
11. JSW shift in charge close the main gas valve. Wait for CO ppm to be zero in Union
CV analyser.
12. JSW Shift In charge ensure proper ESS & LOTO procedures to be followed for
isolating the power supply from Union CV analyser.
13. Open the diaphragm pump mounted below the pury, clean it and examine the
condition of tube inside. If the tube is damaged due to friction, replace it with new
one.
14. Open the tubes from pury inlet and outlet. Clean pury's gas lines and ensure free
passing. Clean Naphtha from lines if any.
15. Remove pressure regulator and clean it internally, check the condition of
diaphragm, if bad then replace it by healthy one.
16. Clean the burner and ensure its steady position. Remove thermopile and clean it
with blower.

17. Connect the calibration cylinder with regulator to initiate the process. Ensure
parameters entered of calibration gas are matching with actual calibration gas.
18. JSW has to ensure, the Union CV Analyser provides output in integrated display,
provides 4 to 20mA Outputs.
19. Calibration of Union CV Analyser is in the scope of vendors. Only Support will be
provided by JSW.
20. The Union CV Analyser calibration should not disturb the existing working of the
system in terms of Pressure, temperature etc.
21. The vendor should provide training on Operation/Usage and maintenance after
calibration of the Union CV Analyser.
22. Vendor should response to queries related to minor problems facing in Analysers
over phone at any point of time.
23. Vendors should submit the reports in hard copies and soft copies related to each
Union CV analyser calibration services.

JSW SCOPE: -

1) CO monitors, BA sets will be provided by JSW.
2) Supporting manpower shall be provided by JSW.
3) Lifting & shifting of material shall be in JSW Scope.
4) Housekeeping in JSW scope.
5) Electrical & mechanical works in JSW scope.
6) Gate Pass will be processed in advance by JSW before the visit.

Satya Prakash Dhaked
AGM Customer Support
Adage Automation Private Limited