भारत हैवी इलैट्रिक्ቪ
लललिटेड
(भारत सरकार का उप्ቅ
म)
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
(A Govt. of India Undertaking)

Page 1 of 6
Ref: T7I1Y64922

Date: 05.06.2025
NOTICE INVITING TENDER
COVERING LETTER

Tenders are invited through conventional mode from eligible suppliers with sound technical and financial
capabilities (meeting PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA as mentioned in Annexure – I below) for the subject job
by the undersigned on behalf of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED as per the tender document. Issue of
tender to any bidder shall not construe that the bidder is considered qualified. Consideration of their offer
is subject to meeting PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA as mentioned in NIT. Following points relevant to the
tender may please be noted and complied with:
SALIENT DETAILS OF NIT
SL.
NO.
ISSUE
DESCRIPTION
1.0
SUBJECT
The scope of bidder shall include Design, Engineering,
Procurement,
Manufacturing,Supply
of
Tail
Gas
Analysers Spare Parts for IOCL Paradip SRU project
2.0
ENQUIRY NO. & NIT NO.
T7I1Y64922
3.0
DETAILS OF TENDER DOCUMENT
3.1
General Conditions of Contract (GCC)
3.2
Specific Conditions of Contract (SCC)
3.4
Price Bid Format
3.6
PQC Document-Not applicable
3.7
Technical Specification
3.8
Integrity Pact – Not Applicable

4.0
TENDER START (ZERO) DATE
05.06.2025
Tender documents can be downloaded from BHEL website
www.bhel.com till due date of submission.
5.0
OFFER SUBMISSION PROCEDURE
Tenders are invited through conventional mode (Thru email
or Physical submission) only.

Techno-Commercial Offer (i.e. PART-1 Bid – including signed
and stamped copies of GCC, SCC, Technical Specification,
and “Unpriced” Price Offer etc.) should be submitted to
technicalbid_hyd@bhel.in

Price Offer (i.e. PART-2 Bid) should be submitted to
pricebid_hyd@bhel.in

6.0
DUE DATE & TIME OF OPENING OF
TECHNO-COMMERCIAL OFFER
Bid Due Date: 09.06.2025, Time: 11.00 Hrs.
Bid Opening Date: 09.06.2025, Time: 15.00 Hrs.
Notes:
(1) In case the due date of opening of tender becomes a
non-working day, tenders shall be opened on next working
day at the same time.

ENQUIRY NO. T7I1Y64922

Page 2 of 6

1.0
The offer shall be submitted as per the instructions of tender document and as detailed in this NIT.
Price shall not be mentioned by the bidders anywhere in the techno-commercial offer. Price shall be
furnished in the relevant price schedule only to be enclosed with the price offer. In case of any
clarification, bidder may contact us.

2.0
Documents to be submitted by bidders against this NIT:

Sl. No. Description
I
TECHNO-COMMERCIAL BID
I.a
Offer forwarding/ covering letter.
I.b
Duly filled-in `No deviation certificate' as per prescribed format.
In case of any deviation, the same should be submitted separately for technical & commercial
parts, indicating respective clauses of tender against which deviation is taken by bidder.
I.c
Techno-commercial offer enclosing supporting document/ annexure/ schedules/ drawing etc. as
required in line with pre-qualification criteria/ prescribed format. Bidder shall mark/ index
relevant document in support of corresponding pre-qualification criteria. It shall be specifically
noted that all documents as per above shall be indexed properly and credential certificates
issued by clients shall distinctly bear the name of organization, contact ph. no, fax no., e-mail
etc.
I.d
Duly filled-in annexures, formats –GCC
I.e
All volumes of tender document pertinent for the subject job along with this NIT together with
subsequent changes to tender in the form of TCN (Tender Change Notice), correspondences
etc., signed & stamped on all pages.
I.f
Un-priced Price Schedule without disclosing rates/ price, but mentioning only `quoted’ against
each item of package
I.g
Other documents specified in NIT and Technical Specification
I.h
Any other details preferred by bidder with proper indexing
II
PRICE BID
II.a
Copy of offer forwarding/ covering letter (as referred in I.a).
II.b
Duly filled-in Prices as per the Price Bid Format.

SPECIAL NOTES
A)
Your offer & documents submitted along with offer shall be signed & stamped in each page by your
authorized representative. No overwriting/ correction in tender documents by bidders shall be
allowed. However, if correction is unavoidable, the same may be signed by authorized signatory.
B)
All documents/ annexures submitted with the offer shall be properly annexed and placed in
respective places of the offer as per enclosure list mentioned in the covering letter. BHEL shall not
be responsible for any missing documents.
(2) Bidder may depute representative to witness the
opening of tender.
7.0
EMD AMOUNT
Not Applicable
8.0
COST OF TENDER
Not Applicable
9.0
SCHEDULE OF PRE-BID DISCUSSION
(PBD)
Through Email
10.0
LAST
DATE
OF
SEEKING
CLARIFICATION
06.06.2026 - Bidders should send the pre-bid queries in soft
form to venkatanagendra@bhel.in,kanand@bhel.in
11.0
INTEGRITY PACT
Not Applicable
12.0
DETAILS OF INDEPENDENT
EXTERNAL MONITOR (IEM)
NA
13.0
LATEST UPDATES
Latest updates on the important dates, Amendments,
Correspondences, Corrigenda, Clarifications, Changes,
will be intimated through email.

ENQUIRY NO. T7I1Y64922

Page 3 of 6

3.0
No Deviation with respect to tender clauses and no additional clauses/ suggestions/ clarification in
Techno-commercial bid/ Price bid shall normally be considered by BHEL. Bidders are requested to
positively comply with the same. Offers with deviation are liable for rejection.

4.0
BHEL reserve the right to accept or reject any or all offer(s) without assigning any reasons thereof.
BHEL also reserve the right to cancel the tender wholly or partly without assigning any reason
thereof. Also, BHEL shall not entertain any correspondence from bidders in this matter (except for
the refund of EMD, if applicable).

5.0
Bidders may consult this office before submitting their offers, for any clarifications regarding scope
of work, facilities available at sites or on terms and conditions. No additional claim shall be
entertained by BHEL in future, on account of non-acquaintance of above.

6.0
For any clarification on the tender document, bidders may seek the same through e-mail before
scheduled date, from the office of the undersigned for clarification.

7.0
BHEL may decide holding pre-bid discussion (PBD) with any/ all intending bidder(s). On such
communication from BHEL, the bidder shall ensure participation in the same at the appointed time,
date and place as may be decided by BHEL. Bidders shall plan their visit accordingly. The outcome of
pre-bid discussion (PBD) shall also form part of tender.

8.0
In the event of any conflict between requirement of any clause of this specification/ documents/
drawings/ data sheets etc. or requirements of different codes/ standards specified, the same to be
brought to the knowledge of BHEL in writing for clarification before due date of seeking clarification
(as applicable), otherwise, more stringent requirement as may be interpreted by BHEL shall prevail
and shall be binding on the bidder. Any typing error/ missing pages/ other clerical errors in the
tender documents, noticed by the bidders must be pointed out before pre-bid meeting/ submission of
offer, or else, BHEL’s interpretation shall prevail & shall be binding on the bidder.

9.0
Unless specifically mentioned otherwise, bidder’s quoted price shall be deemed to be in compliance
with tender along with TCNs including PBD, if any.

10.0 Bidders shall submit Integrity Pact Agreement (Duly signed by authorized signatory who signs in the
offer), if applicable, along with techno-commercial bid. This pact shall be considered as a
preliminary qualification for further participation. Detail of Independent External Monitor (IEM) for
the subject tender, if applicable, is furnished above.

11.0 The Price Bids of only those bidders will be opened who will be qualified for the subject job on the
basis of evaluation on pre-qualification criteria/ techno-commercial bids, approval/ acceptance of
customer (as applicable), etc. BHEL’s decision in this regard shall be final & binding. BHEL also
reserve the right to reject bidder with unsatisfactory past performance in execution of a contract.
BHEL’s decision in this regard shall be final & binding.

12.0 While BHEL reserve the right to open the price bid of the offers in camera, the date & time to open
the Cover-PRICE BID shall be intimated to the bidders, in case BHEL decides it to be `Public opening'
and in such a case, one authorized representative of the bidder shall be allowed to attend.

13.0 REVERSE AUCTION: BHEL shall Not be resorting to Reverse Auction (RA) (Guidelines as available
on www.bhel.com) for this tender. RA shall be conducted among all techno-commercially qualified
bidders.
Refer to clause no. 12.0 of GCC for more detail.

14.0 Tenderers must adhere to all volumes of tender and quote accordingly. Any terms & conditions not
covered in SCC will be governed by GCC. Commercial terms & conditions shall be as per SCC (Volume-
IB).
If there is any conflict in clause mentioned in General Conditions of Contract (GCC) and Specific
Conditions of Contract (SCC), then clause mentioned in SCC supersedes the requirement.

ENQUIRY NO. T7I1Y64922

Page 4 of 6

15.0 Corrigendum/ extension/ addendum, if any, pertaining to this tender will be issued directly to you,
as applicable.

16.0 On submission of offer, further consideration will be subject to compliance to tender & qualifying
requirement and customer’s acceptance, as applicable.

17.0 Unsolicited discounts received after opening of techno-commercial bid shall not be considered for
evaluation. However, if the party who has submitted the unsolicited discount/ rebate becomes the L-
1 party, then the awarded price shall be after considering the discount.

18.0 In case the bidder is an “Indian Agent of Foreign Principals”, Agency agreement has to be submitted
along with Bid failing which offer from Bidder may not be considered.

19.0 Standalone bidder can again neither be a prime bidder in a consortium bid nor be a consortium
partner to any other bidder. Similarly, prime bidder shall neither be a consortium partner to other
prime bidder nor submit any other bid with other consortium partners. However, consortium partner
may enter into consortium agreement with other prime bidder(s).

20.0 The offers of the bidders who are under Suspension in the form of “Hold” or “Banning” or who
engage the services of banned firms shall be rejected. In this regard, Guidelines for Suspension of
Business Dealings with Suppliers/ Contractors available on BHEL Website (www.bhel.com) shall be
applicable. The list of banned firms is also available on BHEL Website (www.bhel.com).

21.0 The bidder may have to produce original document for verification if so decided by BHEL.

22.0 Offer shall be submitted directly by vendor or his authorized representative/ agent only and the offer
should be in line with regulatory guidelines (i.e., Agency agreement between principal vendor and
agent/ representative shall be attached which shall be a valid one and cover the scope of services
rendered by Agent, Agency commission etc.). OEM details shall be provided if supplier is not a
manufacturer.
Bid envelope shall bear name of the supplier. In case of submission through authorized
representative/ agent, the name of representative/ agent should be mentioned additionally apart
from the supplier name.

23.0 Offer received after the specified time of submission will be rejected. No further correspondence
shall be entertained.

24.0 It may please be noted that guidelines/ rules in respect of ‘Suspension of Business dealings’, ‘Vendor
evaluation format’, ‘Quality, Safety & HSE guidelines’, etc. may undergo change from time to time
and the latest one shall be followed.

25.0 Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE):
Any Bidder falling under MSE category can avail the intended benefits shall furnish the following
details & submit documentary evidence/ Govt. Certificate etc. in support of the same along with
their techno-commercial offer.
Type under MSE
SC/ST owned
Women owned
Others (excluding SC/ ST & Women
Owned)
Micro

Small

Note: If the bidder does not furnish the above, offer shall be processed construing that the
bidder is not falling under MSE category.
a) MSE suppliers can avail the intended benefits in respect of the procurements related to the Goods
and Services only (Definition of Goods and Services as enumerated by Govt. of India vide Office
Memorandum F. No. 21(8)/2011-MA dtd. 09/11/2016 office of AS & DC, MSME) only if they submit

ENQUIRY NO. T7I1Y64922

Page 5 of 6

along with the offer, attested copies of either Udyam Registration. Date to be reckoned for
determining the deemed validity will be the last date of Technical Bid submission. Non-submission of
supporting document along with bid will lead to consideration of their bids at par with other bidders.
No benefits shall be applicable for this enquiry if the above required documents are not uploaded at
the time of bid submission. Documents submitted by the bidder shall be verified by BHEL for
rendering the applicable benefits.
b) MSE benefits/preferences shall be applicable for Manufacturers only, traders are ineligible for getting
any kind of MSE benefits/preferences.
26.0 Order of Precedence
In the event of any ambiguity or conflict between the Tender Documents, the order of precedence
shall be in the order below:
a.
Amendments/ Clarifications/ Corrigenda/ Errata etc. issued in respect of the tender documents
by BHEL
b.
Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)
c.
Price Bid Specification - As per Price bid format of NIT
d.
Technical Specification
e.
Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) - Volume-IB
f.
General Conditions of Contract (GCC) - Volume-IA
Note: In case, contradiction is observed among the documents w.r.t. commercial terms, the clause/
requirement as mentioned in SCC will prevail.

for BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LTD.
Dy Manager/ Purchase, PE&SD, Hyderabad

Agency
Contact details
BHEL, PE&SD,
Ramachandrapuram,
Hyderabad
Address
Purchase/ PE&SD, BHEL, Ramachandrapuram, Hyderabad - 502032
Phone no
040 2318 2239
E-mail
venkatanagendra@bhel.in,kanand@bhel.in

Enclosures
01. Annexure – II – No deviation certificate (Refer GCC documents Annexure-1)

भारत हैवी इलैट्रिक्ቪ
लललिटेड
(भारत सरकार का उप्ቅ
म)
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
(A Govt. of India Undertaking)

ANNEXURE - II

FORMAT FOR NO DEVIATION CERTIFICATE
(To be submitted in the bidder's Letter Head)

Purchase / PE&SD
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED,
Ramachandrapuram
Hyderabad-502032

Sub
No Deviation Certificate.
Job
The scope of bidder shall include supply of Tail Gas Analysers Spare Parts
Ref
01
ENQUIRY No. T7I1Y64922
02
BHEL’s NIT, with technical documents
03
All other pertinent issues till date.

Dear Sirs,

With reference to above, this is to confirm that, we have read the tender documents and noted the job
content. We also confirm that we have not changed/ modified the tender documents as appeared in the
website/ issued by you and in case of such observance at any stage, it shall be treated as null and void.

We hereby confirm that we have not taken any deviation from tender clauses together with other
references as enumerated in the above referred NIT. We hereby confirm our unqualified acceptance to
all terms & conditions, Specific Conditions of Contract, General Conditions of Contract, all other
annexures, unqualified compliance to technical specification, corrigenda, integrity pact (if applicable)
and acceptance to reverse auctioning process.

In the event of observance of any deviation in any part of our offer at a later date whether implicit or
explicit, the deviations shall stand null & void.

We confirm to have submitted offer in accordance with tender instructions and as per aforesaid
references.

Thanking you,

Yours faithfully,

(Signature, date & seal of authorized

Representative of the bidder)

Sl.no
Description
Qty
Unit of
Measurement
(UOM).
Unit Price
Total price
Remarks
1
Optical filter drive belt (PN # 300-1528)
1
No.
2
Optical Filter (PN # 300-0284)
1
No.
TOTAL PRICE = 1 + 2
1
2
3
4
5
6
(Name & Signature of the Bidder)
(Company Stamp)
All the items of the Package shall be quoted as per tender specification and pre-bid clarifications, if any. Responsibility of ensuring correctness & completeness of scope of supply as per
specification requirement solely lies with bidder.
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
R.C.PURAM, HYDERABAD-502032
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
PROJECT: IOCL PARADIP SULPHUR RECOVERY UNIT
CUSTOMER: M/s. INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
CONSULTANT: M/s TechnipFMC
Bidder's Name : <Bidder to indicate>
Bidder's Offer No. & Dt. : <Bidder to indicate>
Bidder's Ref No. & Dt. :<Bidder to indicate>
BHEL Enq. No. & date :<Bidder to indicate>
NOTES:
The Bid evaluation is on Overall L1 basis. Each and every item of the package shall be quoted by the bidder.
The price quoted shall be INCLUSIVE of Freight, Packing & Forwarding and Testing Charges. Price quoted shall be EXCLUSIVE of domestic GST, Third party inspection (TPI) &
Insurance Charges. Applicable GST shall be paid Extra.
PRICE BID FORMAT (Rev. 00)
FOR TAIL GAS ANALYSERS SPARE PARTS
Date:
BHEL Material code: PY9756804009
Bidders shall not fill/ edit/ modify anything else in the Price Bid Format.
Bid will be rejected if any other price format is used. Both priced and un-priced price formats to be provided by the bidders shall be signed and stamped copies.
Bidder to indicate the "Quoted" in the columns "Unit price & Total price " as a confirmation of their bid to the respective item and furnish un-priced bid in part-1 of the offer (i.e. Techno-
Commercial bid).
Page 1of 1
QUOTED
QUOTED
09-06-2025

VOL – 1B
Rev 1.0
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF
CONTRACT

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

2
These conditions shall be read in conjunction with other NIT Documents. In case of any conflict or
inconsistency, the order of precedence mentioned in the GCC shall be followed.

1
ENQUIRY/ NIT NO.
T7I1Y64922
2
TENDER TYPE
Single
3
DIVISIBLE CONTRACT
No
4
TENDER DESCRIPTION
Supply of Tail Gas Analysers Spare Parts for IOCL Paradip SRU project
5
PURCHASER
PE&SD, BHEL Hyderabad
6
PROJECT NAME
Stand by SRU,IOCL-Paradip
7
CUSTOMER
IOCL
8
LOCATION OF THE PLANT
Paradeep, Odisha
9
CONSIGNEE ADDRESS/BHEL
SITE OFFICE ADDRESS
Shall be furnished along with dispatch clearances.
10
GUARANTEE PERIOD
As per Clause 16 of GCC
11
INTEGRITY PACT
Not Applicable
12
TENDERING MODE
Conventional mode (Tender Cell Mode)
13
REVERSE AUCTION
Not Applicable
14
CONTRACT PERFORMANCE
BANK GUARANTEE
Not Applicable
15
PERFORMANCE BANK
GUARANTEE
Not Applicable
16
TRANSIT INSURANCE
SCOPE
IOCL Scope
17
FREIGHT (UP TO SITE)
SCOPE
Supplier
18
EVALUATION CRITERIA
Overall L1
19
DELIVERY PERIOD
6 Weeks from Date of PO.

20
PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Supply
21
PAYMENT TERMS
As per Clause 6.1.1 & 6.1.3 of GCC
22
LIQUIDATED DAMAGES
On total Order Value
23
PVC
Not Applicable

(If applicable, refer PVC Formula)
24
STORAGE AT SITE
BHEL
25
PORT OF DISPATCH (IN
CASE OF FOREIGN VENDOR)
Kolkata/Mumbai
26
INSPECTION AGENCY
BHEL/Customer/TPI
27
PACKING, IDENTIFICATION &
MARKING
As per NIT document & Tech Spec
28
END-CUSTOMER’S
APPROVAL OF VENDOR
Not Required
29
SPECIAL NOTES (IF ANY)
NA
30
CLAUSES OF GCC NOT
APPLICABLE / TO BE READ
AS / MODIFIED TO
Clause no. 18.0 (Integrity pact), Cl no.-9.0 (Bank Guarantee), Cl no.-25
(E&C) of GCC are not applicable.
31
BHEL’S SERVICE PROVIDER
FOR ENTERPRISE
NA

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

3
PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
(EPS)
32
MSE PREFERENCE (If
applicable, specify %age that will
be given to the preferred vendor)
Not Applicable.
33
MII PREFERENCE (If applicable,
specify %age that will be given to
the preferred vendor)
Not Applicable, Proprietary item
34
CONTACT PERSON FOR
SUPPLIER REGISTRATION
Name: Billa Kumar Gangaraju,
Designation: Manager,
Purchase Department, PE&SD Building
Ground Floor, BHEL, RCPuram
Hyderabad-502032
Email Id: billakumar@bhel.in
35
PURCHASE OFFICER
Name: K V Nagendra Reddy,
Designation: Dy. Manager
Purchase Department, PE&SD Building
Ground Floor, BHEL, RCPuram
Hyderabad-502032
Ph No: 04023182239
Email Id: venkatanagendra@bhel.in
NOTES
A
Details required for dispatch will be provided in Dispatch Instructions issued along with Dispatch Clearance
after completion of inspection.
B
In case of Open Tender / Limited Tender where BHEL’s customer approval is required at the final stage of
order placement, bidder must provide all required documentation like credentials, past track record, etc.
Bidder’s offer will be evaluated for price, only on final approval by BHEL’s customer. Refer Sl. No. 28 to
identify whether End-Customer’s approval of Supplier is required.
C
In case of Limited Tender, bidder has to get registered with PE&SD, BHEL, Hyderabad for the category of
item enquired, in case he is not registered as on date. Otherwise his offer is liable for rejection. Refer Sl. No.
32 for Contact Person for Supplier Registration.
D
Evaluation shall be based on delivered cost, i.e. “total cost to BHEL” w.r.t the finalized technical scope and
commercial conditions (after considering incidence of applicable taxes and duties and loading). For
evaluation, exchange rate (TT selling rate of State Bank of India) as on the date of bid opening (Part-I, in
case of two-part bids) shall be considered. If the relevant day happens to be a bank holiday, then the forex
rate as on the previous bank (SBI) working day shall be taken.
E
Purchase preference to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs): Purchase preference will be given to MSEs
as defined in Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012 dated
23.03.2012 issued by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and its subsequent
Orders/Notifications issued by concerned Ministry. If the bidder wants to avail the Purchase preference, the
bidder must be the manufacturer of the offered product in case of bid for supply of goods. Traders are
excluded from the purview of Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises. In respect of bid
for Services, the bidder must be the Service provider of the offered Service. Relevant documentary evidence
in this regard shall be uploaded along with the bid in respect of the offered product or service. If L-1 is not
an MSE and MSE Seller (s) has/have quoted price within L-1+ 15% (Selected by Buyer) of margin of
purchase preference /price band defined in relevant policy, such Seller shall be given opportunity to match
L-1 price and contract will be awarded for 100%(selected by Buyer) percentage of total QUANTITY. The
buyers
are
advised
to
refer
the
OM
No.F.1/4/2021-PPD
dated
18.05.2023
OM_No.1_4_2021_PPD_dated_18.05.2023 for compliance of Concurrent application of Public Procurement
Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order, 2012 and Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India)
Order, 2017.

VOL – 1A
Rev 1.0
GENERAL CONDITIONS
OF CONTRACT

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

2

BRIEF TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION
DESCRIPTION
PAGE
A
List of Abbreviations [ABRV]
3
B
Definition of Terms [DEFN]
4 - 6
C
Instruction to Bidders [ITB]
7 - 17
D
General Commercial Terms and Conditions [GCTC]
18 - 45
E
Annexures - 1 to 14 [ANX]
46 - 71

The Detailed Table of Contents for Section-C: ITB is available on Page 7.
The Detailed Table of Contents for Section-D: GTC is available on Page 18.
The Detailed Table of Contents for Section-E: Annexures is available on Page 46.

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

3
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AWB
Airway Bill
AMC
Annual Maintenance Contract
BG
Bank Guarantee
BL
Bill of Lading
BOQ/ BOM
Bill of Quantity/ Bill of Material
CQIR
Corporate Quality Inspection Report
CIF
Cost, Insurance and Freight
C&F
Cost & Freight
CPBG
Contract Performance Bank
Guarantee
COO
Country of Origin
CQ
Corporate Quality
CAN
Cargo Arrival Notice
EMD
Earnest Money Deposit
E&C
Erection and Commissioning
FOB
Free on Board
FOR
Free on Rail/Road
FCL
Full container load
FTL
Full Truck Load
GCC
General Conditions of Contract
GR
Goods Receipt
GST
Goods and Service Tax
H1 Bidder
Bidder quoting highest landed cost
to BHEL
HSN
Harmonised System Nomenclature
HSE
Health Safety & Environment
Guidelines
HQ
Head Quarters
INR
Indian Rupee (also abbreviated as
Rs.)
IP
Integrity Pact
IEC
Independent Expert Committee
IEM
Independent External Monitor
L1 Bidder
Bidder quoting lowest landed cost to
BHEL
LC
Letter of Credit
LD
Liquidated Damages
LoI
Letter of Intent
LoA
Letter of Award
LR
Lorry Receipt
MCE
Marine Cum Erection Insurance
MDCC
Material Dispatch Clearance
Certificate
MRC
Material Receipt Certificate
MSMED
Act
Micro, Small, and Medium
Enterprises Development Act
NIT
Notice Inviting Tender
O&M
Operation & Maintenance
PAN
Permanent Account Number
PBG
Performance Bank Guarantee
PO
Purchase Order
PQR
Pre-Qualification Requirement
PTR
Proven Track Record
PE&SD
Project Engineering & System
Division
P&ID
Piping & Instrumentation Diagram
PTL
Part Truck Load
PVC
Price variation Clause
QA
Quality Assurance
QS
Quality Surveillance
RA
Reverse Auction
RR
Railway Receipt
RBI
Reserve Bank of India
RFQ
Request for Quotation
SAC
Service Accounting Code
SCC
Special Conditions of Contract
SCE
Storage cum Erection Insurance
TPIA
BHEL’s Third Party Inspection
Agency
T&P
Tools and Plant
TReDS
Trade Receivables e-Discounting
System
USD
United States Dollar

ABRV

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

4
DEFINITIONS

The Notice Inviting Tender documents (also referred as NIT Documents or NIT) comprise of the following:
1.
NIT Cover Letter
2.
Volume – 1A: General Conditions of Contract (GCC)
3.
Volume – 1B: Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)
4.
Volume – 2A: Technical Specification including all its Annexures
5.
Volume – 2B: Price Bid Format
6.
Volume – 2C: Quality Assurance Plan (QAP)

The NIT documents also include the annexures to any of the volumes mentioned above. Any exclusion from or
addition to the above set shall be duly indicated in the NIT Cover Letter/ SCC.

Throughout the NIT documents the following words shall have the meanings assigned to them herein, unless the
subject matter or the context requires otherwise.

1.
Purchaser shall mean M/s Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (A Govt. of India Undertaking) incorporated
under the Companies Act 1956, having its registered office at BHEL House, Siri Fort, New Delhi-110049, India
and acting through its Projects Engineering & Systems Division (PE&SD), PE&SD Building,
Ramachandrapuram, Hyderabad – 502032 (Telangana) which expression shall include its successors and
assigns. It may also be referred to as BHEL/ Vendee/ Buyer.

2.
Tender shall mean offer submitted in response to Notice Inviting Tender (NIT)/ Request for Quotation (RFQ).

3.
Owner shall mean the Customer or Client for whose project the enquiry is issued by the Purchaser and shall
include the Owner’s successors and assigns as well as authorised officer(s)/ representative(s).

4.
Consultant shall mean the agency appointed by Owner or Purchaser to provide consultancy services for the
project and shall include the Consultant’s successors and assigns as well as authorized officer(s)/
representative(s).

5.
Bidder shall mean the Firm/ Company/ Organization which quotes against the Tender Enquiry issued by
Purchaser. It may also be referred as Vendor.

6.
Order/ Contract shall mean and include the Purchase Order/ Framework Agreement along with tender/ offer
submitted by the Seller, letter of intent/ acceptance/ award of the Purchaser, the bidding conditions, the
General Conditions of Contract and Special Conditions of Contract for Purchase, Specifications, Inspection/
Quality Plan, Schedule of Prices and Quantities, Drawings, form of tender, covering letters, if any enclosed or
to be provided by the Buyer or his authorized nominee, Integrity Pact (if applicable), the samples or patterns
if any to be provided under the provisions of the Contract, and subsequent amendments mutually agreed upon.
Any conditions or terms stipulated by the bidder in the tender/offer or subsequent letters shall not form part of
the Contract unless specifically accepted in writing by BHEL.

7.
Seller/ Contractor shall mean the person/ Firm/ Company/ Organization with whom the Order/ Contract is
made and shall be deemed to include its successors, representatives, heirs, executors, administrators and
permitted assigns, as the case may be. It may also be referred as Supplier or Vendor.

8.
Sub-Contractor shall mean the person/ firm/ company/ organisation to whom any part of the work has been
sub-contracted by Seller/ Contractor, with the written consent of the Purchaser, and shall include sub-
contractor’s heirs, executors, administrators, representatives and assigns.

9.
Engineer shall mean the authorized officer of Purchaser to act as the engineer on its behalf for the purpose
of the Order/ Contract.

10. Inspector shall mean any firm or person as may be duly appointed and authorised in writing by BHEL/
Purchaser from time to time to inspect plant and equipment, works and services under the Contract.

11. Work/ Works/ Goods shall mean plants, equipment, or materials to be supplied and/ or such other works to
be done/ provided by the contractor under the Contract.

12. Site shall mean and include the land and place on which the project and its related facilities are to be
constructed and any adjacent land which may be allocated or used by Owner or Seller/ Contractor in
performance of the Order/ Contract.

13. Tests on completion shall mean such tests as prescribed in specifications and/ or tests mutually agreed upon
by Purchaser and Seller/ Contractor, to be performed by Seller/ Contractor after erection of equipment to
establish its satisfactory operation as per specifications.

DEFN

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

5
14. Commissioning shall mean successful completion of Trial Operation and readiness of the contracted/ ordered
plant and/or materials for commercial use. This will include all consumables and inputs required for pre-
commissioning.

15. Initial Operation or Trial Operation or Reliability Run shall mean continuous integrated operation of the
contracted/ ordered plant and/or materials under varying operating conditions as proof of satisfactory operation
for a specified period.

16. Inspection Agency (IA) shall mean person(s) authorized by Purchaser / Owner to inspect the stores as per
Order/ Contract at Contractor’s/ Sub-Contractor’s works.

17. Month shall mean calendar month and week shall mean 7 (seven) days.

18. Consignee shall mean the official(s)/ person(s) to whom the stores are required to be delivered in the manner
indicated in the Order/ Contract.

19. Plant/ Equipment/ Stores shall mean the goods, machinery, components, parts, spares, civil works, structural
works, architectural works, and things of all kinds required to be supplied by Seller/ Contractor as per Order/
Contract.

20. Purchase Officer shall mean the official who signs the Order/ Contract on behalf of Purchaser.

21. Site Engineer shall mean officer authorised by owner/purchaser to receive and verify the in-coming stores,
and issue Material Receipt Certificate (MRC)/ Stores Receipt Voucher (SRV).

22. Site Inspection Agency (Site IA) shall mean person(s) authorized by Purchaser/ Owner to inspect the stores/
works included in Order/ Contract at the Project Site.

23. Executive Director/ General Manager shall mean the officer in administrative charge of BHEL - PE&SD,
Hyderabad.

24. Consulting Engineer shall mean any firm or person as may be duly appointed and authorised in writing by
BHEL/Purchaser from time to time to review plant and equipment, works and services under the Contract.

25. Review Consultant shall mean any firm or person as may be duly appointed and authorised in writing by
BHEL/Purchaser from time to time for final review of the plant and equipment, works and services under the
Contract.

26. Acceptance of Tender shall mean e-mail / Tele-fax Letter of Intent or any notification communicating to the
Contractor the acceptance by BHEL of his tender.

27. Contract Price shall mean the agreed sum of money stated in the Contract to be paid to the Contractor for
the successful fulfilment of the Works in accordance with the terms of the Contract Documents.

28. Test shall mean such tests as are prescribed in the specifications and/or other tests as mutually agreed upon
by BHEL/ Purchaser and the Contractor, whether performed or made by the Engineer, Contractor or any
Agency acting under the direction of the Engineer.

29. Tests on Completion/ Acceptance Test/ Performance Guarantee Test shall mean such tests as are
prescribed in the specifications and/or other tests as mutually agreed upon by BHEL/ Purchaser and the
Contractor to be carried out by the Contractor on erection of the plant / equipment / material to prove
satisfactory performance as per Specification.

30. Constructional Plant means all appliances or things of whatsoever nature required in or about the execution,
completion or maintenance of the works or any ‘temporary work’ by the contractor at his own cost and risk (as
hereinafter defined) but does not include materials or other things intended to form or forming part of “work”.

31. Temporary Work shall mean all temporary jobs of every kind required in or about the execution, completion
or maintenance of the work by the contractor at their cost and risk.

32. Completion Time shall mean the period by date/ month specified in the acceptance of Letter of Intent/
Purchase Order for supply and handing over of the intended scope of work, which are found acceptable by
the engineer being of required standard and conforming to the specifications of the contract. The time and
date of completion of the work as stipulated in the Contract documents shall be deemed to be the essence of
the Contract.

33. Consignee shall mean the authorised representative or officer of the Purchaser / BHEL to whom the plant,
equipment and materials are required to be delivered in the manner indicated in the Contract Documents.

DEFN

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

6
34. Specification or Technical Specifications shall mean all Specifications including technical specifications of
the Works and the Tender Drawings and schedules attached thereto and any modification made thereof.

35. Drawings shall mean drawings referred to in the Contract documents including modifications if any and such
other drawings as may be from time to time furnished by the Contractor and approved by BHEL / purchaser.

36. Acceptance Test/ Performance Guarantee Test shall mean such test as are required to determine and
demonstrate guaranteed capacity, efficiency and operating characteristics of the Plant as stipulated in the
contract Documents.

37. Initial Operation/ Reliability Run/ Trial Run shall mean the first continuous operation of the plant by the
Contractor covered under the Contract with sub-systems under varying loads to demonstrate satisfactory
operation for a specified period which shall not be less than fifteen (15) days.

38. Commercial Operation shall mean the conditions of operation in which all the equipment covered under the
Contract are officially declared by BHEL/ purchaser, to be available for continuous operation at different loads
and including rated capacity.

39. Service shall mean furnishing of labour and services as per specifications and supervision of complete
erection, testing and putting equipment and materials to be supplied into satisfactory operation, supervision of
inland transportation, loading and unloading and storage at the site as defined in the Contract.

40. Warranty Period shall mean the period during which the Contractor shall remain liable for repair or
replacement of any defective part of the plant supplied, works done and services rendered under the Contract.

41. Code shall mean the applicable International and Indian standards as on the date of letter of intent and any
subsequent modification thereof.

42. Month shall mean calendar month. “Day” or “Days” unless otherwise expressly defined shall mean calendar
day or days of twenty-four (24) hours each. A week shall mean continuous period of seven (7) days.

43. Letter of Intent/ Purchaser Order shall mean BHEL’s letter or notification conveying their acceptance of the
Tender subject to such conditions as may have been stated therein.

44. Writing shall include any manuscript typed or handwritten or printed statement, including Telex, Cable, and
facsimile transmission under or over signature or seal as the case may be.

45. Approved/ Approval shall mean as approved by or approval of competent authority of the Purchaser/ Owner.

46. Tonne/ Ton shall mean 1000-kilogram mass. “Gallon” shall mean Imperial gallon, unless otherwise mentioned
specifically.

47. Final Acceptances mean the Purchaser’s and/or Owner's acceptance of the work plant completed in every
respect as per terms of the Contract on expiry of the Warranty/ Guarantee/ maintenance period.

GENERAL

48. The words incorporating singular shall include plural and vice-versa, the words incorporating masculine gender
shall include feminine gender and vice-versa, and the words incorporating persons shall include bodies,
corporate, limited liability companies, partnership and other legal entities.

49. Words incorporating “Persons” shall include firms, companies, corporations and other bodies whether
incorporated or not.

50. ‘Parties to the Contract’ shall mean the Seller and the Buyer as named in the main body of the Purchase Order.

51. Wherever in this document term ‘time’ and ‘date’ has been referred, it implies Indian Standard Time and date.

52. Terms and conditions not herein defined shall have the same meaning as are assigned to them in the latest
edition of Indian Sale of Goods Act/Indian Contracts Act as applicable.

53. The terms like Tenderer/ Bidder/ Vendor/ Seller/ Contractor/ Supplier used in the NIT documents can be
used interchangeably. In the same way the terms like Purchaser/ Buyer/ BHEL can be used in the NIT
documents interchangeably.

DEFN

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

7
INSTRUCTION TO BIDDERS

SL. NO.
DESCRIPTION
1.0
General Instructions
2.0
Tendering Through Enterprise Procurement System
3.0
Tendering Through Conventional Procurement System
4.0
Discount and Price Impact
5.0
Authority for Tender Signing
6.0
Clarifications Required by Bidders
7.0
Deviations from NIT
8.0
Validity of Offer
9.0
Price Discrepancy
10.0
Language & Corrections
11.0
Bidder to Inform Himself Fully
12.0
Reverse Auction
13.0
Rejection of Tender and other Conditions
14.0
Evaluation Criteria
15.0
Foreign Suppliers & Indian Agents of Foreign Suppliers
16.0
Ethics in Business Dealings
17.0
BHEL Fraud Prevention Policy
18.0
Integrity Commitment
19.0
Tendering Cost
20.0
Benefits Earmarked for Purchase From MSE
21.0
Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India)
22.0
Startups
23.0
Supplier Registration With BHEL
24.0
RXIL (TReDS) Platform
25.0
Restriction on Bidders from Countries Sharing Land Border with India
26.0
Initial Advance
27.0
Declaration for Non-Formation of Cartel

ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

8
1.0
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1.0.1
Tenderers are advised to study all the NIT documents carefully. Any submission of tender by the tenderer
shall be deemed to have been done after careful study and examination of the NIT documents and with full
understanding of the implications thereof. The specifications and terms & conditions shall be deemed to
have been accepted unless otherwise specifically commented upon by the tenderer in his offer. Non-
compliance with any of the requirements and instructions in the Tender Enquiry may result in rejection of the
tender.
1.0.2
HEADINGS: The headings in NIT Documents are solely for facilitating reference and shall not be deemed
to be part thereof or be taken into consideration in the interpretation or construction thereof or of the contract.
1.0.3
The general terms of business or sale of the bidder shall not apply to the Buyer or the Contract unless
specifically agreed to otherwise in the Contract. Any other terms and conditions of the bidders attached/
referred in the bid of the Bidder against the tender enquiry will be treated as rejected by the Buyer unless
specifically agreed to in the Contract. Any deviations from or additions to these ‘General Conditions of
Contract’ require Buyer’s express written consent.
1.0.4
COMPETENCE AND GUARANTEES: Contractor shall have sound technical and financial capabilities and
possess recognized experience in executing jobs of similar kind and magnitude. The contractor shall properly
fill in the various schedules and proforma prescribed in the NIT documents. Non submission of the
information in the prescribed schedules and proforma and within the time prescribed may lead to rejection
of the bid.
1.0.5
NO RESPONSE: Non-Response from vendor against the enquiry will be deemed as vendor is not interested
to quote for the Material / equipment under consideration. Any changes to NIT conditions during the
processing of the enquiry will not be intimated to such vendors.
1.0.6
REGRET : If any vendor regrets to quote against the enquiry giving specific reason for the regret, then
subsequent changes to NIT conditions, if any, which impact the reason for regret, will be intimated to such
vendors.
1.0.7
LATE OFFERS: Tenders received after the Due Date and Time of submission shall be rejected.
1.0.8
UNSOLICITED TENDERS: Unsolicited tenders shall not be entertained.
1.0.9
Wherever references are being made for any particular web links, bidder to properly appraise himself about
these web links before submission of the bid.
2.0
TENDERING THROUGH ENTERPRISE PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
2.0.1
Bidders shall participate in BHEL’s enquiries through its online Enterprise Procurement System
(EPS) only, unless otherwise specified in NIT or its accompanying covering letter/e-mail.
2.0.2
Bidders shall have to visit BHEL E-Procurement web site and have to upload their quotation on BHEL e-bid
portal in line with NIT requirement by due date and time
2.0.3
It is obligatory on part of the Bidder to familiarize himself with all terms and guidelines for participating in the
online tendering event, details of which are available at EPS homepage.
2.0.4
The bidder shall be responsible for arranging all resources required for participating in online tendering event,
which include a PC with internet connectivity and a valid Digital Signature Certificate (DSC). Details of
minimum resources required are available at EPS homepage.
2.0.5
It shall be mandatory for the Bidder to submit the “Proforma Declaration of Acceptance of BHEL’s
Techno-Commercial Terms” as mentioned in Annexure-1 along with their offer (Part-1 Offer – in case
of two-part Bids). Bids received without this declaration shall be liable for rejection.
2.1
MULTI – PART BIDS
2.1.1
Tenders shall be submitted in Two parts (unless otherwise specified in NIT) on or before the Due Date and
time indicated in the NIT/ RFQ and subsequent intimations on extensions, if any.

PART – I (Techno-Commercial Bid): This part shall comprise of Declaration of Acceptance of Techno-
Commercial Terms, Technical Offer, Unpriced copy of Price Bid, PQR documents (if applicable), EMD
(if applicable), Integrity Pact (if applicable), and any other documents as specified in NIT.


PART – II (Price Bid): Prices are to be quoted in the Price Bid Form available in EPS. Attachments
containing prices submitted along with tender shall not be considered for evaluation, while the same
may be considered for award, if found lower. The price should be quoted for the unit of measurement
indicated in the e-tender document. Any deviation from the prescribed Price Bid Format will make the
bid liable to be invalid.

It is the responsibility of Bidder to go through the NIT documents to ensure furnishing all required documents
in addition to above, if any.
2.1.2
Offers are liable to be rejected for changes made by bidders in the Price Schedule, except those specified
in the unpriced bid and accepted by Purchaser.
2.1.3
The evaluation currency for this tender shall be INR.
2.1.4
Documents submitted by the bidders may be verified for authenticity by BHEL.
2.2
DO NOTS
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

9
2.2.1
For enquiries published through EPS mode, Bidders shall NOT submit their offer in any mode other than
though EPS, else their offer shall not be considered.
2.2.2
Uploading of the price bid in prequalification bid or technical bid may result in rejection of the bid.
2.3
OPENING OF BIDS
2.3.1
The bid submission end-time along with time remaining for submitting bids shall be continuously displayed
on EPS portal against each enquiry. The EPS portal will automatically disable links to upload bids once the
bid submission time is over. Request for extension of bid submission time shall generally not be entertained.
The bidder shall be responsible for submission of bids in due time.
2.3.2
The Part-1 Bids shall be opened after the time for submission of bids has elapsed.
2.3.3
Each of the Part-1 bids shall be scrutinized for compliance with BHEL’s Terms. Bids not meeting BHEL’s
Techno-commercial terms/ Pre-Qualification Criteria shall generally be rejected.
2.3.4
Incomplete Bids shall be liable for rejection. It is bidder’s responsibility to ensure that all documents required
as per NIT are provided with the bid.
2.3.5
Part-2 Bids shall be opened for techno-commercially qualified bidders only. Such bidders shall receive
automated notification from the EPS portal intimating them about scheduled date and time for Part-2 Bid
opening.
2.3.6
No correspondence shall be entertained from the Bidders after opening of Part-II (Price bid), except
clarifications (if any) asked by BHEL in writing.
2.3.7
Purchaser may negotiate the prices with L1 bidder after price bid opening.
3.0
TENDERING THROUGH CONVENTIONAL PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
3.0.1
In exceptional circumstances, BHEL shall float enquiries outside its Enterprise Procurement System. Such
enquiries shall henceforth be referred as non-EPS/ Conventional Enquiries. The same shall be clearly
indicated in the NIT or its accompanying covering letter. Bidders are supposed to follow the instructions listed
below for participating in Conventional Enquiries.
3.1
SUBMISSION
3.1.1
Tenders shall be submitted in Two parts (unless otherwise specified in NIT) on or before the Due Date and
time indicated in the NIT/ RFQ and subsequent intimations on extensions, if any.

PART – I: Techno-Commercial Bid: This part shall comprise of Declaration of Acceptance of Techno-
Commercial Terms, Technical Offer, Unpriced copy of Price Bid, PQR documents (if applicable), EMD
(if applicable), Integrity Pact (if applicable), and other documents as specified in NIT.

PART – II: Price Bid: Prices are to be quoted in the Price Bid Form. Attachments containing prices
submitted along with tender shall not be considered for evaluation, while the same may be considered
for award, if found lower. The price should be quoted for the unit of measurement indicated in the e-
tender document.
Name of bidder’s dealing person with Contact No(s), Email ID and Address of correspondence shall be
provided in the bid. Documents submitted by the bidders may be verified for authenticity by BHEL.
3.1.2
Tenders shall be addressed to BHEL officials by name & designation as given in NIT and sent to the following
address:
Vendor Complex, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.
Project Engineering & Systems Division
Ramachandrapuram, Hyderabad - 502032
Telangana, India
3.1.3
Tenders can either be deposited in vendor complex in person or sent by Courier/ Registered or Speed Post
to the above-mentioned address. It shall be bidders’ responsibility to ensure that tenders are delivered in
time.
3.1.4
Bidder can also submit offer through email. The offer is to be submitted in two parts. Technical offer is to be
submitted to mail ID technicalbid_hyd@bhel.in, and price bid is to be submitted to mail ID
pricebid_hyd@bhel.in. Interchanging the information in the mails may lead to rejection of the offer.
3.1.5
Supplier shall have no claim on e-mail offers sent to any other e-mail ID. In case of e-mail offers, the mail
subject should contain Enquiry No. Due date and Supplier name. Supplier address including contact details
shall be mentioned in the content of the mail. Without these details offer is liable for rejection.
3.1.6
It shall be mandatory for the Bidder to submit the “Proforma Declaration of Acceptance of BHEL’s
Techno-Commercial Terms” as mentioned in Annexure-1 along with their offer (Part-1 Offer – in case
of two-part Bids). Bids received without this declaration shall be liable for rejection.
3.2
MARKING ON ENVELOPES (IN CASE BIDS ARE NOT SUBMITTED THROUGH EMAIL)
3.2.1
Envelopes shall be addressed to the official inviting tender with the following markings:
PART-I BID: 1. Tender Enquiry No. and Item Description; 2.Due Date for Opening; 3. "Techno-Commercial
Bid”.
PART-II BID: 1. Tender Enquiry No and Item Description; 2. Due Date for Opening; 3."Price Bid".
3.2.2
Both Parts - I & II shall be submitted in separate sealed covers duly superscribed as indicated above and
shall be enclosed further in a main cover duly sealed and superscribed as: "TENDER FOR __________
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

10
AGAINST TENDER ENQUIRY NO. __________ DUE ON____________ CONTAINING PART-I & PART-II
BIDS"
3.2.3
Envelope not marked with tender enquiry number is liable to be ignored and may not be opened.
3.3
OPENING OF BIDS
3.3.1
PART-I (Techno-Commercial Bid) may be opened on Due Date and time specified in the NIT/ RFQ, or
extension thereof, in presence of Bidders who may like to attend. Incomplete offers are liable to be rejected.
Purchaser reserves the right to open both Part-I and Part-II together.
3.3.2
After technical & commercial evaluation of the offers received and clarifications obtained (if required), Part-
II (Revised Price Bid/ Original Price Bid along with Price Impact and Discount, if any) shall be opened, for
which the date and time shall be intimated to technically and commercially acceptable bidders in case of
public opening. BHEL may opt to finalize the prices through Reverse Auction amongst technically and
commercially acceptable bidders. BHEL reserves the right to open the earlier price bids, if any, submitted by
the bidder(s), if required.
3.3.3
No correspondence shall be entertained from the Bidders after opening of Part-II (Price bid), except
clarifications (if any) asked by BHEL in writing.
3.3.4
Only one representative of the bidder will be permitted to be present for tender opening. The representative
to be present for tender opening should have proper authentication/ Photo Identity Proof which needs to be
produced on demand by BHEL. Carrying of mobile phone/ camera or any such photo/ voice recording device
by bidders’ representatives in the tender opening room/ building/ designated area is banned. If any bidders’
representative does not follow the instructions, he will not be permitted to attend the tender opening.
3.3.5
Purchaser may negotiate the prices with L1 bidder after price bid opening.
4.0
DISCOUNT AND PRICE IMPACT
4.1
DISCOUNT
4.1.1
Any discount/ revised offer submitted by a bidder on his own shall be accepted provided it is received on or
before the due date and time of offer submission. The discount shall be applied on pro-rata basis to all items
unless specified otherwise by the bidder. Unsolicited discounts/revised offers given after due date and time
of offer submission shall not be accepted.
4.1.2
Discount offered by any bidder in the original price bid, against the present Tender Enquiry, which is also
indicated to be applicable to any other Enquiry, shall be considered against the present Tender Enquiry only.
4.1.3
In case only percentage discount is indicated, the same shall be applicable to optional prices also. Discount
offered shall be valid for full duration of offer validity. Any conditional discount shall not be considered for
evaluation.
4.2
PRICE IMPACT
4.2.1
In case there is no change in the technical scope and/or specifications and/or commercial terms & conditions,
the bidder/s shall not be allowed to change his/their price bids after the due date, within the validity period
of offer.
4.2.2
In case of changes in scope and/or technical specification and/or commercial terms & conditions, having
price implications, techno-commercially acceptable bidders shall be asked by BHEL (after freezing the
scope, technical specifications and commercial terms & conditions) to submit the impact of such changes
on their price bid. A cut-off date and time shall be given to all the techno-commercially acceptable bidders
to submit the impact on their price bids.
4.2.3
If the bidder submits impact opposite of the asked for (positive or negative), the impact will be considered as
ZERO for evaluation as well as ordering. If BHEL does not specify the type of impact (positive or negative),
bidders shall be free to quote the impact in positive or negative.
4.2.4
(FOR CONVENTIONAL MODE ONLY) In the event of any bidder, after finalizing the technical specification
& scope of supply, opting to revise and submit their latest price bid instead of submitting impact on their price
bid asked by BHEL, then their original price (i.e. the previous bid) shall also be opened.
4.2.5
(FOR CONVENTIONAL MODE ONLY) Price Impact/ Discount/ Revised Price Bid shall be duly super scribed
as: “Price Impact / Discount/ Revised Price Bid (Part-II) (delete whichever is not applicable), Revision No.
___ against Tender Enquiry No. _______ dated ____”
5.0
AUTHORITY FOR THE TENDER SIGNING
5.0.1
A person signing the tender or any other document in respect of Order/ Contract on behalf of the Bidder,
without disclosing his authority to do so shall be deemed to warrant that he has the authority to bind the
Bidder.
5.0.2
Bidder must submit authorization letter or power of attorney for submission and signing of tender when asked
by BHEL. If it is discovered at any time that the person so signing had no authority to do so, the Purchaser
may, without prejudice to any other right or remedy, cancel the Order/ Contract and make or authorize the
purchase of the stores at the risk and cost of such Bidder and hold such Bidder liable to Purchaser for all
costs and damages arising from cancellation of the Order/ Contract including any loss which Purchaser may
sustain on account of such purchase.
6.0
CLARIFICATIONS REQUIRED BY BIDDERS
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

11
6.0.1
Technical and commercial clarifications required before submission of the tender should be addressed to
the official(s) inviting the tender.
6.0.2
The bidder shall have no claim for extension of bid submission due date, whether or not BHEL chooses to
reply to any technical or commercial clarification sought by the bidder.
7.0
DEVIATIONS FROM NIT
7.0.1
Deviations (Commercial as well as Technical) from NIT are generally not acceptable. Non-compliance with
any of the requirements and instructions in the NIT may result in rejection of the tender.
7.0.2
In case of deviations from NIT, bidder to clearly spell out the deviations in Annexure-2 only. Any
comments/clarifications/deviations etc. not mentioned in deviation sheet and written elsewhere in the offer
shall not be taken cognizance of. All terms & conditions of the tender shall be deemed to be accepted by the
bidder except those specifically mentioned by the bidder under Annexure-2.
7.1
LOADING FOR COMMERCIAL DEVIATIONS
7.1.1
No deviations in GCC terms and conditions are generally acceptable, and bids with deviations are liable
to be rejected. However, in exceptional circumstances, BHEL may accept deviations with Loading for
deviations cases mentioned in Annexure-7.
8.0
VALIDITY OF OFFER
8.0.1
Bidder’s offer shall be submitted with the following validity periods for placement of Purchase Order:
8.0.2
Original offer shall be valid for 90 days from Part-I opening.
8.0.3
If revised price bid/ price impact is asked by BHEL, the validity of the offer shall be 60 days from the date of
revised price bid/ price impact or 90 days from Part-I opening, whichever is later.
8.0.4
In case where Reverse Auction (RA) is conducted, the validity of the offer shall be 60 days from the date of
RA completion or 90 days from Part-I opening, whichever is later.
8.0.5
In case of negotiation, the validity of the offer shall be 60 days from the date of receipt of revised
price/negotiated final price or 90 days from Part-I opening, whichever is later.
8.0.6
Prices of Recommended Spares, O&M Spares and Mandatory Spares (wherever these are Optional items)
shall be valid till 2 years from the date of PO (for placement of order).
8.0.7
Unit prices for scope addition/ deletion shall be valid till execution of PO (for amendment of PO).
8.0.8
The prices for supervision of erection and commissioning shall be remain valid for the guarantee period of
the main equipment/system/package
8.0.9
Offers with shorter validity than above are liable to be rejected.
9.0
PRICE DISCREPANCY
9.0.1
Following shall be considered for evaluation and ordering for non-conformities/ errors/ discrepancies in price
bid:
a.
Bidders should quote total price in “figures” with corresponding words in price bid format
b.
If in the price structure quoted for the required goods/ services/ works, there is discrepancy between
the unit price and the total price (which is obtained by multiplying the unit price by the quantity), the unit
price shall prevail and the total price corrected accordingly, unless in the opinion of the Purchaser there
is an obvious misplacement of the decimal point in the unit price, in which case the total price as quoted
shall govern and the unit price corrected accordingly.
c.
If there is an error in a total corresponding to the addition or subtraction of subtotals, the subtotals shall
prevail, and the total shall be corrected.
d.
If there is a discrepancy between words and figures, the amount in words shall prevail, unless the
amount expressed in words is related to an arithmetic error, in which case the amount in figures shall
prevail subject to (a) and (b) above.
e.
If there is such discrepancy in an offer, the same shall be conveyed to the bidder with target date up to
which the bidder has to send his acceptance on the above lines and if the bidder does not agree to the
decision of the Purchaser, the bid is liable to be ignored and treated as withdrawal of offer after price
opening.
f.
Taxes and duties if not specified clearly as extra shall be considered as included in the basic price and,
therefore, shall not be reimbursed.
10.0
LANGUAGE & CORRECTIONS
10.0.1
All documentations and correspondence regarding the contract shall be in English language.
10.0.2
Bidder shall quote the rates in English language and international numerals only. Total Price shall be entered
in figures as well as in words. For the purpose of tender, metric system of units shall be used.
10.0.3
All entries in the tender shall either be typed or written legibly in ink. Bid submitted with illegible documents
shall be treated as incomplete, making the bid liable for rejection.
10..0.4
Bid should be free from correction, overwriting, using corrective fluid, etc. Any interlineation, cutting, erasure
or overwriting shall be valid only if they are attested under full signature(s) of person(s) signing the bid else
bid shall be liable for rejection. All overwriting/ cutting, etc. will be numbered by bid opening officials and
announced during bid opening.
11.0
BIDDER TO INFORM HIMSELF FULLY
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

12
11.0.1
Bidder shall closely peruse all clauses, specifications & drawings etc. indicated in NIT documents before
quoting. In case of any doubt about meaning of any portion of tender specifications or discrepancies or
omissions in drawings/ tender document or clarifications regarding scope of work etc., Bidder shall contact
the official(s) inviting the tender for clarifications, before submitting the offer.
11.0.2
Bidder shall make independent enquiries as to conditions and circumstances affecting cost estimates, and
possibility of executing supplies/ works as described. Bidder shall be deemed to have inspected and
examined the site and its surroundings and to have satisfied himself as to the form and nature of the site,
the quantities and materials necessary for completion of the work and means of transport and access to the
site, the accommodation required, general labour position at site and to have quoted prices taking into
consideration the risks, contingencies and other circumstances which may influence or affect execution of
the Order/ Contract.
11.0.3
It is the responsibility of Bidder to keep himself informed about all taxes & duties applicable on materials/
services as prevailing at the time of tendering. If the rates assumed by Bidder are less than the tariff rates
prevailing at the time of tendering, the Bidder will be himself responsible for such under quotations.
11.0.4
Bidder should possess the knowledge of statutory, obligatory and mandatory requirements of various
statutory authorities and should acquire full knowledge & information about site conditions before submission
of the bid.
12.0
REVERSE AUCTION
12.0.1
BHEL reserves the right to go for Reverse Auction (RA) (Guidelines as available on www.bhel.com) after
techno-commercial evaluation. The intent to go for RA will however, be specified in the NIT (refer SCC).
12.0.2
Bidders to give their acceptance with the offer for participation in RA. Non-acceptance to participate in RA
may result in non-consideration of their bids, in case BHEL decides to go for RA.
12.0.3
Those bidders who have given their acceptance to participate in Reverse Auction will have to necessarily
submit ‘Process Compliance Form’ (to the designated service provider). Non-submission of ‘Process
compliance form’ will be considered as tampering of the tender process and will invite action by BHEL as
per extant guidelines for suspension of business dealings with suppliers/ contractors (as available on
www.bhel.com).
12.0.4
The price bids (as submitted along with offer) of all techno-commercially qualified bidders shall be opened
and same shall be considered as initial bid of bidders in RA. The RA start price and the decrement value
shall be displayed during the dynamic bidding
12.0.5
The highest (H1) Bidder shall not be allowed to participate in the RA process if there are more than four
techno-commercially qualified bidders. However, if the H1 bidder happens to be MSE or qualifying PPP-MII,
Order 2017, he shall still be allowed to participate in the RA process.
12.0.6
In case of multiple H1s, all H1 bidders (excluding MSEs and bidders qualifying PPP-MII Order 2017) shall
be removed.
12.0.7
If there are only three qualified bidders, there shall be no H1 removal.
12.0.8
Order shall be awarded to the lowest (L1) Bidder at the final L1 price after RA, unless otherwise specified in
the NIT.
13.0
REJECTION OF TENDER AND OTHER CONDITIONS
13.0.1
Acceptance of tender will rest with Purchaser and does not bind him to accept the lowest of any tender and
reserves to itself full rights for the following without assigning any reasons whatsoever:
a.
To reject any or all the tenders.
b.
To split the work amongst two or more Bidders.
c.
To award the work in part.
d.
To increase or decrease the quantities.
e.
To reject any commercial or technical deviation given in offer.
13.0.2
Standard pre-printed conditions of tenderer/bidder attached to offer will not be accepted and shall not be
considered.
13.0.3
Purchaser will not be bound by any power of attorney granted by Bidder or by changes in composition of the
firm made subsequent to award of Order/ Contract. Purchaser may, however, recognize such power of
attorney and changes after obtaining proper legal advice, the cost of which will be chargeable to the Seller/
Contractor concerned.
13.0.4
Conditional bids, incomplete bids, bids containing absurd or unworkable rates and amounts, defective bids
and bids not in accordance with tender conditions/specifications, are liable to be rejected.
If the Bidder does not withdraw its deviation(s) and the deviation(s) is/are not acceptable to BHEL, the bid
will be liable to be rejected.
13.0.5
If Bidder deliberately gives wrong information, Purchaser reserves the right to reject such an offer at any
stage or cancel the Order/ Contract, if awarded, and forfeit the security deposit and bank guarantee.
13.0.6
The offers of the bidders who are under suspension by BHEL and also the offers of the bidders, who engage
the services of the suspended firms, shall be rejected. The list of suspended firms is available on BHEL web
site www.bhel.com
14.0
EVALUATION CRITERIA
14.1
TENDER EVALUATION
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

13
14.1.1
Techno-commercial evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of technical specifications, commercial terms
and conditions and PQR (if applicable) specified in the tender documents and changes/clarifications thereof,
if any. Bidders (other than cases of single part bids) shall be given an opportunity to withdraw the deviations/
furnish clarifications/ documents by appropriate cut-off date by authorized purchase executive.
If the bidder does not withdraw its deviation(s) and the deviation(s) is/are acceptable to BHEL, loading of
offers shall be done as per the loading criteria mentioned in this document/NIT.
If no loading criteria is defined for any deviation, BHEL at its discretion, may derive the same and
communicate it to the Bidder. If the Bidder does not withdraw its deviation(s) and the deviation(s) is/are not
acceptable to BHEL, the bid will be liable to be rejected.
In case of changes in scope and/or technical specification and/or commercial terms & conditions, having
price implications, techno-commercially acceptable bidders shall be asked to submit the impact. For
evaluation both original price offer and impact shall be considered.
14.1.2
If the bidder does not withdraw its deviation(s) and the deviation(s) is/are acceptable to BHEL, loading of
offers shall be done as per the loading criteria mentioned in this document/NIT.
If no loading criteria is defined for any deviation it will be derived and communicated to the Bidder. If the
Bidder does not withdraw its deviation(s) and the deviation(s) is/are not acceptable to BHEL, the bid will be
liable to be rejected
14.2
COST EVALUATION
14.2.1
Evaluation of prices shall be done item-wise unless otherwise specified in the SCC/Price Bid Format.
Evaluation shall be on the basis of delivered cost, i.e. “total cost to BHEL” w.r.t the finalized technical
scope and commercial conditions (after considering incidence of applicable taxes and duties and loading if
any, and all available financial advantages, including those available from Owner, taxation authorities etc.).
14.2.2
For evaluation of offers in other than in Indian currency, exchange rate (TT selling rate of State Bank of India)
as on date of tender opening (Part-I bid in case of two-part bid) shall be considered. If the relevant day
happens to be a bank holiday, then the forex rate as on the previous bank (SBI) working day shall be taken.
14.2.3
In case of foreign bidders, the quoted C&F price shall be loaded by following factors to arrive at total FOR
Site price:
a.
Evaluation loading for quoted prices on FOB basis - Marine freight @3% of FOB value for dispatches
from Europe/ Asia/ Australia/ African continent and 5% of FOB value for dispatches from USA/
American continent. For insurance @ 0.1% of FOB value.
b.
Basic Custom Duty or any other levy for which input credit is not available to Purchaser – as prevailing
on date of price bid opening.
c.
Port handling/ clearing charges – @ 1% of C&F value.
d.
Inland freight – @ 1% of C&F value.
14.2.4
The evaluation currency for this tender shall be INR.
15.0
FOREIGN SUPPLIERS & INDIAN AGENTS OF FOREIGN SUPPLIERS
15.0.1
Please refer our website www.bhel.com for details. [http://www.bhel.com/vendor_registration/pdf/SEARP-
2016_abridged_for_web.pdf]
16.0
ETHICS IN BUSINESS DEALINGS
16.0.1
In order to protect its commercial interests, BHEL may take action against suppliers/ contractors by way of
suspension of business dealings with them, who either fail to perform or are in default without any reasonable
cause, cause loss of business/ money/ reputation, indulge in malpractices, cheating, bribery, fraud or any
other misconduct or formation of cartels so as to influence the bidding process or influence the price as per
extant policy of the company (relevant information available under www.bhel.com).
17.0
BHEL FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY
17.0.1
The Bidder along with its associate/ collaborators/ sub-contractors/ sub-Bidders/consultants/ service
providers shall strictly adhere to BHEL Fraud Prevention Policy displayed on BHEL website
http://www.bhel.com and shall immediately bring to the notice of BHEL Management about any fraud or
suspected fraud as soon as it comes to their notice.
18.0
INTEGRITY COMMITMENT
18.0.1
Integrity commitment, performance of the contract and punitive action thereof:
18.0.2
Commitment by BHEL: BHEL commits to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption in connection
with the tender process and execution of the contract. BHEL will during the tender process treat all Bidder(s)
in a transparent and fair manner, and with equity.
18.0.3
Commitment by Bidder/ Supplier/ Contractor: The bidder/ supplier/ contractor commit to take all
measures to prevent corruption and will not directly or indirectly influence any decision or benefit which he
is not legally entitled to nor will act or omit in any manner which tantamount to an offence punishable under
any provision of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or any other law in force in India.
18.0.4
The bidder/ supplier/ contractor will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he has made,
and is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the
award of the contract and shall adhere to relevant guidelines issued from time to time by Govt. of India/
BHEL.
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

14
18.0.5
The bidder/ supplier/ contractor will perform/ execute the contract as per the contract terms & conditions and
will not default without any reasonable cause, which causes loss of business/ money/ reputation, to BHEL.
18.0.6
If any bidder/ supplier/ contractor during pre-tendering/ tendering/ post tendering/ award/ execution/ post-
execution stage indulges in mal-practices, cheating, bribery, fraud or and other misconduct or formation of
cartel so as to influence the bidding process or influence the price or acts or omits in any manner which
tantamount to an offence punishable under any provision of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or any other law
in force in India, then, action may be taken against such bidder/ supplier/ contractor as per extant guidelines
of the company available on www.bhel.com and/or under applicable legal provisions.
18.1
INTEGRITY PACT
18.1.1
IP is a tool to ensure that activities and transactions between the Company and its Bidders/ Contractors are
handled in a fair, transparent and corruption free manner.
18.1.2
Integrity Pact (IP) will be applicable for all tenders/ contracts valuing more than a specific value as specified
in SCC/NIT.
Wherever applicable, Integrity Pact document shall be issued as part of the NIT and shall be returned by
bidders along with their techno commercial bids, duly signed by authorized signatories. Only those bidders
who enter into Integrity Pact with BHEL would be qualified to participate in the bidding process.
18.1.3
Bidders shall have to enter into Integrity Pact with BHEL if specified in SCC/NIT, failing which bidder’s offer
will be rejected.
18.1.4
A panel of Independent External Monitors (IEMs) have been appointed by BHEL with the approval of CVC.
The names of the IEMs in panel are mentioned in NIT. In case of any complaint arising out of the tendering
process, the matter may be referred to the any of the IEMs mentioned in the NIT. All correspondence with
the IEMs shall be done through email only
18.1.5
No routine correspondence shall be addressed to the IEM (phone/ post/ email) regarding the clarifications,
time extensions or any other administrative queries, etc. on the tender issued. All such clarification/ issues
shall be addressed directly to the tender issuing (procurement) department officials whose contact details
are provide in NIT
19.0
TENDERING COST
19.0.1
Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the preparation and submission of its bid. BHEL, shall in no case,
be responsible of liable for these costs, regardless of the conduct or the outcome of the bidding process.
20.0
BENEFITS EARMARKED FOR PURCHASE FROM MICRO & SMALL ENTERPRISES (MSES) –
INDIGENOUS PURCHASE
20.0.1
All Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) as defined in MSE Procurement Policy are exempt from Paying
earnest money deposit. Udyam registered bidders shall submit Udyam Certificate along with bid
documents. Date to be reckoned for determining the deemed validity will be the last date of Technical bid
submission. Non- submission of such document will lead to consideration of their bid, at par with other
bidders and MSE status of such bidders shall be shifted to Non-MSE Category till the supplier submits these
documents. (Only documents submitted before opening of Price Bid shall be accepted.)
20.0.2
In case of divisible tender, if MSEs quoting price within price band of L1+15% shall also be allowed to
supply a portion of requirement by bringing down their price to L1 price in a situation where L1 price is from
someone other than a MSE and such MSE shall be allowed to supply up to 25% of total tendered value. In
case of more than one such MSE, the supply shall be shared proportionately. Out of these 25% minimum
3% shall be earmarked for MSEs owned by women and 6.25% for MSEs owned by SC/STs who submit the
bid along with relevant documents. This is applicable in case of item-level evaluation tenders and
divisible tenders only.
20.0.3
In case of an upward change in terms of investment in plant and machinery or equipment or turnover or both,
and consequent re-classification, an enterprise will maintain its prevailing status till expiry of one year from
the close of the year of registration.

In case of reverse-graduation of an enterprise, whether as a result of re-classification or due to actual
changes in investment in plant and machinery or equipment or turnover or both, and whether the enterprise
is registered under the Act or not, the enterprise will continue in its present category till the closure of the
financial year and it will be given the benefit of the changed status only with effect from 1st April of the
financial year following the year in which such change took place.
20.0.4
MSE suppliers can avail the intended benefits only if they submit along with the offer, attested copies of
Udyam Certificate. Date to be reckoned for determining the deemed validity will be the date of bid opening
(Part-1 in case of two-part bid). Non submission of such documents will lead to consideration of their bids at
par with other bidders. No benefit shall be applicable for the enquiry if any deficiency in the above required
documents are not submitted before the price bid opening. If the tender is to be submitted through e-
procurement portal, then the above required documents are to be uploaded on the portal. This provision for
MSE will apply subject to the condition that the participating MSE meets the tender requirements.
20.0.5
In case of any change in the MSE status of the bidder, it shall be the responsibility of the bidder to notify the
change as a part of the bid document. If at a later date it comes to the knowledge of BHEL, that the change
in the status has not been intimated by the bidder and the order is obtained under the premise of an MSE
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

15
then BHEL may cancel the pending order against this tender and take necessary steps for suspension of
the business dealing with the bidder as per the procurement policy of BHEL.
20.0.6
In case if the items fall under category of reserved items as defined in “Public Procurement Policy for Micro
and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012” and if any of the MSE bidder(s) is techno-commercially qualified
then the price bids of only MSE bidders shall be opened. If no MSE bidder is techno-commercially qualified,
then price bids of all techno-commercially qualified bidders shall be opened.
20.0.7
In the event of any change as notified by Govt. of India in “Public Procurement Policy for Micro and Small
Enterprises (MSEs) Order 2012”, same will supersede.
21.0
PUBLIC PROCUREMENT (PREFERENCE TO MAKE IN INDIA)
21.1
MAKE IN INDIA
21.1.1
For this procurement, the local content to categorize a supplier as a Class-I local supplier/ class-II local
supplier/ Non-Local supplier and purchase preference to Class-I local supplier, is as defined in Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017 dated 04.06.2020 issued by Department of Industrial
Policy & Promotion (DPIIT). In case of subsequent orders issued by the nodal ministry, changing the
definition of local content for the items of the NIT, the same shall be applicable even if issued after issue of
this NIT but before opening of Part-II bids against this NIT.
21.1.2
In the event of any Nodal Ministry prescribing higher or lower percentage of Purchase preference and / or
local content in respect of this procurement, same shall be applicable. All Govt. notifications and Nodal
Ministries/Departments notifications are published and updated on DPIIT website (https://dipp.gov.in/public-
procurements) are to be referred.
21.1.3
Verification of Local content: The bidder along with offer will be required to indicate percentage of local
content and certify that the item offered meets the local content requirement for ‘Class-I local supplier’/’Class-
II local supplier as the case may be.
The bidders to furnish self-certification or a certificate from the statutory auditor or cost auditor of the
company (in the case of companies) or from a practicing cost accountant or practicing chartered accountant
(in respect of supplier other than companies) giving the percentage of local content and shall give details of
the locations(s) at which the local value addition is made.
The bidder will be required to provide a certificate giving the percentage of local content in the proforma
provided at Annexure-3.
21.2
DEFINITIONS
21.2.1
Local Content: Amt. of value added in India which shall, unless otherwise prescribed by the Nodal Ministry,
be the total value of the item procured(excluding net domestic indirect taxes) minus the value of imported
content in the item(including all customs duties) as a proportion of the total value, in percent.
21.2.2
Class-1 local Supplier: Supplier or service provider whose goods, services or works offered for
procurement, has local content equal to or more than 50%, as defined under Revised Public
Procurement(Preference to Make in India)Order 2017 of DPIIT dated 04.06.2020.
21.2.3
Class-2 local Supplier: Supplier or Service provider, whose goods, services or works offered for
procurement, has local content more than 20% but less than 50%, as defined under Revised Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order 2017 of DPIIT dated 04.06.2020.
21.2.4
Non-local Supplier: Supplier or Service provider whose goods, services or works offered for procurement,
has local content <=20%, as defined under Revised Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order
2017 of DPIIT dated 04.06.2020.
21.3
PURCHASE PREFERENCE
21.3.1
The purchase preference and procurement methodology shall be as per the Public Procurement (Preference
to Make in India) notifications of Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) issued from time to
time. Bidder’s to refer the NIT/SCC for Divisibility or non-divisible contract information.
21.4
MARGIN OF PURCHASE PREFERENCE
21.4.1
Margin of purchase preference means the maximum extent to which the price quoted by a “Class-1 local
Supplier “ may be above the L1 bidder’s price. The margin of purchase preference shall be 20%.
22.0
STARTUPS
22.0.1
For Startups Medium Enterprises, Condition of prior turnover and prior experience in Public Procurement
may be relaxed subject to meeting of Quality and Technical Specifications. Startups are exempt from paying
earnest money deposit. Bidders to submit necessary documentary proof to avail the applicable benefits.
23.0
SUPPLIER REGISTRATION WITH BHEL (APPLICABLE FOR UN-REGISTERED VENDORS)
23.0.1
In case of Limited Tender, bidder has to get registered with PE&SD, BHEL, Hyderabad for the category of
item enquired, in case he is not registered as on date. Otherwise his offer is liable for rejection.
23.0.2
In case of Open Tender / Limited Tender where BHEL’s customer approval is required at the final stage of
order placement, bidder has provide all required documentation like credential. Bidder’s offer will be
evaluated for price, only on final approval by BHEL’s customer.
23.0.3
In case of Limited Tender, Techno-commercial (Part-I) offer will be considered subject to their permanent
supplier registration for this material category with BHEL before opening of price bid. Non-Compliance to
above requirement will lead to rejection of bidder’s offer & same will not be considered for evaluation.
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

16
23.1
PROCEDURE FOR GETTING REGISTERED
23.1.1
Apply online. Kindly use the following links to enter into supplier registration portal.
a) http://supplier.bhel.in/ (or)
b) https://suppliers.bheltry.co.in/
23.1.2
Please note that Bidder’s application will be evaluated with respect to technical, quality, organizational, and
financial data.
23.1.3
In case of any difficulty, please feel free to contact the following.

Sr. Officer/ Manager, Supplier Development Cell
Project Engineering & Systems Division, BHEL, Ramachandrapuram,
Hyderabad – 502032, Telangana, India
(Phone number and Contact Details are available in SCC.)
24.0
RXIL (TReDS) PLATFORM
24.0.1
PE&SD is registered with RXIL (TReDS) platform. MSE bidders are requested to get registered with RXIL
(TReDS) platform to avail the facility as per the GOI guidelines.
25.0
RESTRICTION ON BIDDERS FROM COUNTRIES SHARING LAND BORDER WITH INDIA
25.0.1
Any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible to bid in this tender
only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority.
25.0.2
“Bidder” (including the term ‘tenderer‘, ‘consultant’ or ‘service provider’ in certain contexts) means any person
or firm or company, including any member of a consortium or joint venture (that is an association of several
persons, or firms or companies), every artificial juridical person not falling in any of the descriptions of bidders
stated hereinbefore, including any agency branch or office controlled by such person, participating in a
procurement process.
25.0.3
“Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India" for the purpose of this clause (Cl. 26.0) means:
a.
An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or
b.
A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or
c.
An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established or registered in such a
country; or
d.
An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or
e.
An lndian (or other) agent of such an entity; or
f.
A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or
g.
A consortium or joint venture where any member of the consortium or joint venture falls under any
of the above.
25.0.4
The beneficial owner for the purpose of (Cl. 26.0.3(d)) above will be as under:
1.
ln case of a company or Limited Liability Partnership, the beneficial owner is the natural person(s), who,
whether acting alone or together, or through one or more juridical person, has a controlling ownership
interest or who exercises control through other means.
Explanation:
a.
"Controlling ownership interest" means ownership of or entitlement to more than twenty-five per
cent. of shares or capital or profits of the company;
b.
"Control" shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or
policy decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders’
agreements or voting agreements;
2.
ln case of a partnership firm, the beneficial owner is the natural person(s) who, whether acting alone or
together, or through one or more juridical person, has ownership of entitlement to more than fifteen
percent of capital or profits of the partnership;
3.
In case of an unincorporated association or body of individuals, the beneficial owner is the natural
person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or through one or more juridical person, has
ownership of or entitlement to more than fifteen percent of the property or capital or profits of such
association or body of individuals;
4.
Where no natural person is identified under (1) or (2) or (3) above, the beneficial owner is the relevant
natural person who holds the position of senior managing official;
5.
ln case of a trust, the identification of beneficial owner(s) shall include identification of the author of the
trust, the trustee, the beneficiaries with fifteen percent or more interest in the trust and any other natural
person exercising ultimate effective control over the trust through a chain of control or ownership.
25.0.5
An Agent is a person employed to do any act for another, or to represent another in dealings with third
person.
25.1
DEFINITION OF COMPETENT AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION
25.1.1
A. The Competent Authority for the purpose of registration under this Order shall be the Registration
Committee constituted by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIlT)*.
B. The Registration Committee shall have the following members*:
i. An officer, not below the rank of Joint Secretary, designated for this purpose by DPIIT, who shall
be the Chairman;
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

17
ii. Officers (ordinarily not below the rank of Joint Secretary) representing the Ministry of Home Affairs,
Ministry of External Affairs, and of those Departments whose sectors are covered by applications
under consideration;
iii. Any other officer whose presence is deemed necessary by the Chairman of the Committee.
C. DPIIT shall lay down the method of application, format etc. for such bidders as stated in para 1 of this
Order.
D. On receipt of an application seeking registration from a bidder from a country covered by para 1 of this
Order, the Competent Authority shall first seek political and security clearances from the Ministry of
External Affairs and Ministry of Home Affairs, as per guidelines issued from time to time. Registration
shall not be given unless political and security clearance have both been received.
E. The Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Home Affairs may issue guidelines for internal use
regarding the procedure for scrutiny of such applications by them.
F.
The decision of the Competent Authority, to register such bidder may be for all kinds of tenders or for a
specified type(s) of goods or services, and may be for a specified or unspecified duration of time, as
deemed fit. The decision of the Competent Authority shall be final.
G. Registration shall not be granted unless the representatives of the Ministries of Home Affairs and
External Affairs on the Committee concur*.
H. Registration granted by the Competent Authority of the Government of India shall be valid not only for
procurement by Central Government and its agencies/ Public enterprises etc. but also for procurement
by State Governments and their agencies/ public enterprises etc. No fresh registration at the State level
shall be required.
I.
The Competent Authority is empowered to cancel the registration already granted if it determines that
there is sufficient cause. Such cancellation by itself, however, will not affect the execution of contracts
already awarded. Pending cancellation, it may also suspend the registration of a bidder, and the bidder
shall not be eligible to bid in any further tenders during the period of suspension.
J.
For national security reasons, the Competent Authority shall not be required to give reasons for rejection
I cancellation of registration of a bidder.
K. In transitional cases falling under para 3 of this Order, where it is felt that it will not be practicable to
exclude bidders from a country which shares a land border with India, a reference seeking permission
to consider such bidders shall be made by the procuring entity to the Competent Authority, giving full
information and detailed reasons. The Competent Authority shall decide whether such bidders may be
considered, and if so shall follow the procedure laid down in the above paras.
L.
Periodic reports on the acceptance! refusal of registration during the preceding period may be required
to be sent to the Cabinet Secretariat. Details will be issued separately in due course by DPIIT.

[* NOTE:
i.
In respect of application of this Order to procurement by! under State Governments, all functions
assigned to DPIIT shall be carried out by the State Government concerned through a specific
department or authority designated by it. The composition of the Registration Committee shall be
as decided by the State Government and paragraph G above shall not apply. However, the
requirement of political and security clearance as per para D shall remain and no registration shall
be granted without such clearance.
ii.
Registration granted by State Governments shall be valid only for procurement by the State
Government and its agencies! public enterprises etc. and shall not be valid for procurement in other
states or by the Government of India and their agencies/ public enterprises etc.]
25.2
VALIDITY OF REGISTRATION
25.2.1
ln respect of tenders, registration should be valid at the time of submission of bids and at the time of
acceptance of bids. In respect of supply otherwise than by tender, registration should be valid at the time of
placement of order. If the bidder was validly registered at the time of acceptance / placement of order,
registration shall not be a relevant consideration during contract execution.
25.3
MANDATORY CERTIFICATE REGARDING COMPLIANCE
25.3.1
Bidders must submit a certificate duly signed and stamped along with their offer regarding their compliance
with the requirement mentioned under Clause 26.0. The format of Certificate is available at Annexure-5.
25.3.2
If such certificate given by a bidder whose bid is accepted is found to be false, this would be a ground for
immediate termination and further legal action in accordance with law.
26.0
INITIAL ADVANCE
26.0.1
Initial advance is not applicable and will not be considered for this bid/ contract.
27.0
DECLARATION FOR NON-FORMATION OF CARTEL
27.0.1
The Bidder declares that they will not enter into any illegal or undisclosed agreement or understanding,
whether formal or informal with other Bidder(s). This applies in particular to prices, specifications,
certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict
competitiveness or to introduce cartelization in the bidding process. In case, the Bidder is found having
indulged in above activities, suitable action shall be taken by BHEL as per extant policies/ guidelines.
27.0.2
Declaration to submitted by the Bidder along with his offer as per Annexure-4.
ITB

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

18
GENERAL COMMERCIAL TERMS & CONDITIONS

1
CONTRACT
PART-1:
Introduction
2
ACCEPTANCE OF ORDER
3
TIME (THE ESSENCE OF CONTRACT)
4
CONTRACT PRICE
5
QUANTITY VARIATION

6
TERMS OF PAYMENT
PART-2:
Payment,
Taxes,
Securities,
Penalties &
Recoveries
7
TAXES AND DUTIES
8
STATUTORY VARIATION
9
BANK GUARANTEE
10
DELIVERY FAILURE AND LIQUIDATED DAMAGES / PENALTY
11
RECOVERY OF OUTSTANDING AMOUNT

12
ENGINEERING/QUALITY DOCUMENTS
PART-3:
Engineering,
Inspection,
Guarantees
13
AVAILABILITY OF SPARES
14
INSPECTION AND TESTING AT CONTRACTOR'S PREMISES
15
INTERCHANGEABILITY AND CHANGES
16
GUARANTEE/ WARRANTY FOR PLANT/ EQUIPMENT/ SYSTEM/ PACKAGE
17
LIST OF STANDARDS FOR REFERENCE

18
DELIVERY TERMS
PART-4:
Dispatch &
Delivery
19
PACKING
20
PHYTOSANITARY CERTIFICATE
21
INSURANCE
22
MATERIAL RECEIPT CERTIFICATE
23
SHORTAGES / DAMAGES

24
SUPERVISION OF ERECTION & COMMISSIONING (IF APPLICABLE AS PER NIT/ SCC)
PART-5:
Services/
Turnkey
Projects
25
ERECTION & COMMISSIONING (IF APPLICABLE AS PER NIT/ SCC)
26
EXTENSION OF TIME FOR COMPLETION (FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES)

27
FORCE MAJEURE
PART-6:
Disputes &
Resolutions
28
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
29
POWER TO VARY OR OMIT WORK OR TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
30
TRANSFER, SUB-LETTING/ ASSIGNMENT/ SUB-CONTRACTING
31
DEFAULT/ BREACH OF CONTRACT, INSOLVENCY, AND RISK & COST PURCHASE
32
NON WAIVER OF DEFAULTS
33
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
34
INDEMNIFICATION

35
FOREIGN SUPPLIERS AND INDIAN AGENTS OF FOREIGN SUPPLIERS (AGENCY
AGREEMENT)
PART-7: Other
General Terms
36
SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND RATING SYSTEM
37
DEALING WITH BANNED SUPPLIERS/ CONTRACTORS IN BHEL
38
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND/OR LICENCES
39
CONFIDENTIALITY/ NON-DISCLOSURE AND INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS

GCTC

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

19
PART-1: INTRODUCTION
1.0
CONTRACT
1.0.1
Contract between Purchaser and Seller/ Contractor is merely a contract and shall not be treated as partnership
between the parties to the contract.
1.0.2
The general terms of business or sale of the bidder shall not apply to Buyer and any other terms and conditions
of the bidders attached/ referred against the tender enquiry will be treated as null and void ab initio.
1.0.3
Any deviations from or additions to these ‘General Conditions of Contract for Purchase’ require Buyer’s express
written consent. Acceptance, receipt of shipments or services or effecting payment shall not mean that the
general terms of business or sale of the Seller have been accepted.
1.0.4
Purchase orders/ Contracts, agreements and amendments thereto shall be binding if made or confirmed by
the Buyer in writing.
1.0.5
Only the Purchasing department of the Buyer is authorized to issue the Purchase Order or any amendment
thereof.
1.1
SCOPE OF CONTRACT
1.1.1
The scope of work, if not otherwise mentioned in the contract, shall be on the basis of a single contractor’s
responsibility, completely covering all Technical Specifications referred in and including accompanying
Technical Specification.
1.1.2
Detailed design of all the equipment and subsystem and work as per specification.
1.1.3
Complete manufacture / Procurement of all the equipment / subsystem including shop testing and assembly
as per specification.
1.1.4
Providing of special tools and tackles and services necessary for satisfactory execution of the contract.
1.1.5
Providing engineering drawings, data sheets, operation manual, etc.
1.1.6
Packing and transportations of the Goods from the manufacturer’s works to the site.
1.1.7
E&C works or Supervision of E&C works at destination site ( as applicable ), called for elsewhere in the contract
documents
1.1.8
Performance testing and obtaining site certification regarding satisfactory performance as per Specification,
where applicable and as prescribed in the Contract documents and/or mutually agreed upon by BHEL/
Purchaser and the Contractor.
1.2
APPLICATION
1.2.1
Unless otherwise provided in the contract documents, these general conditions shall govern the works of the
accompanying technical specifications. Specific conditions and conditions in other documents, if attached to
this tender, shall be read in conjunction with these general conditions, and these conditions together will form
a part of the contract.
1.3
ORDER OF PRECEDENCE
1.3.1
In case of any inconsistency, conflicts or contradiction among any of the contract documents, the
interpretations will be based on the following order of precedence:
i.
Amendments to Purchase Order/ Work Order/ Framework Agreement
ii.
Purchase Order/ Work Order/ Framework Agreement
iii.
Letter of intent (LOI)/ Letter of Award (LOA)
iv.
Clarifications agreed between Buyer and Seller as regards to the tender or the bidding conditions
v.
Corrigenda to NIT, with those of later date having precedence over those of earlier date
vi.
Enquiry letter and annexures except documents listed in point no (vii) to (ix) below
vii. Technical specifications including their annexures
viii. Special Conditions of Contract (SCC)
ix.
General Conditions of Contract (GCC)
2.0
ACCEPTANCE OF ORDER
2.0.1
Issuance of Purchase order by the purchaser shall result in a binding contract between the seller/contractor
and the Buyer. The seller shall send the order acceptance/acknowledge in totality within seven days from the
date of LOI/ Purchase order and bring to the notice of BHEL, any discrepancy/errors with regard to scope of
work, rates, taxes & duties, agreed terms & conditions etc. for due rectification.
In case of any clerical error in the LOA/ Purchase order with respect to agreed Terms & Conditions, BHEL
reserves the right to issue correction(s) as and when noticed. Purchaser reserves the right to revoke the order
placed if the order confirmation differs from the original order placed. Purchaser shall only be legally bound if
agreed explicitly in writing to be in agreement with the deviation. The acceptance of deliverables or supplies
by Purchaser as well as payments made in this regard shall not imply acceptance of any deviations.
2.0.2
The Purchaser order will be deemed to have been accepted by seller if no communication to the contrary is
received within seven days from the date of PO/LOA and LOA/ Purchase order issued shall be deemed as
having no discrepancy/ errors. Purchaser is at liberty to send signed PO through electronic media such as e-
mail and the receipt of which shall be treated as receipt of order.
3.0
TIME (THE ESSENCE OF CONTRACT)
GCTC-1

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

20
3.0.1
The time and date of material supply completion stipulated in the contract Documents shall be deemed to be
the essence of the Contract. The Contractor shall so organise their resources and perform so as to complete
the work not later than the aforesaid date of completion. The contractor shall commence the works and shall
proceed with the same with due expedition and without delay except as may be expressly sanctioned or
ordered by the Engineer. If the contractor fails to commence the work or organize his resources to enable
delivery of supplies within the stipulated time, BHEL at their sole discretion will have the right to cancel the
contract. In such an event the contractor’s security deposit with BHEL will stand forfeited without any further
reference to the contractor, without prejudice to any and all of the BHEL’s other rights and remedies in this
regard.
4.0
CONTRACT PRICE
4.0.1
The contract price is the agreed sum of money stated in the contract documents to be paid to the contractor
for the successful completion of supply and execution of the works in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The contract price shall be for the entire scope of the work with the break-ups as specified.
4.0.2
The individual item rates or lump sum price as the case may be, in the schedule of this contract shall be
deemed to be firm for the entire period of the Contract or extended period of contract and no escalation in the
rates or price shall be permissible for any reason whatsoever unless otherwise specified.
4.0.3
The contract price shall not be varied in respect of the fluctuations in rate of wages or allowances payable to
the labour or in the cost of materials, consumables, water, fuel, power or for anticipated profit or alleged losses
or for any other reason whatsoever.
4.0.4
Prices shall remain Firm (or with PVC as specified in NIT) for any increase in the Order/ Contract value up to
plus 10% (for any amendment) within three years from the date of original PO or till execution of contract
whichever is earlier, unless specified otherwise in NIT. The Purchaser shall have the right to increase or
decrease quantities and scope up to the above extent of value and Vendor/ Contractor shall be bound to accept
the same at the contracted prices without any escalation.
5.0
QUANTITY VARIATION
5.0.1
BHEL shall have the right to increase/ decrease bid quantities up to plus 10% of the order value and the bidder
shall be bound to accept the same at the final order rates without any escalation.
5.0.2
Unit rates of detailed BOQ list, where applicable, shall be valid till contract completion.

GCTC-1

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

21
PART-2: PAYMENT, TAXES, SECURITIES, PENALTIES & RECOVERIES
6.0
TERMS OF PAYMENT
6.1
SUPPLY PACKAGES
6.1.1
For Indian Vendors:
 Ninety percent (90%) of basic price of materials and 100% of Packing & Forwarding, Freight, and
Transit Insurance (if applicable) supplied as per PO (and/or approved billing schedule), shall be payable
on receipt of material at site on pro-rata basis on submission of each of the following:

Copy of MRC or acknowledged LR/Proof of Delivery copy duly signed by BHEL site/customer with
clear date of receipt of material at site.

Other documents listed at Cl. 6.7
 Final Ten percent (10%) of the basic price of materials supplied will be retained as security deposit
which will be released on:

completion of all supplies of the contract

receipt of Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from project site engineer of owner/purchaser

and on submission of other documents listed at Cl. 6.7
 All documents are to be submitted directly to Purchaser and not through bank.

NOTE: If final documentation could not be submitted up to 24 months from supply completion for reasons not
attributable to the vendor, then 2% of the basic price of materials supplied shall be withheld as security deposit
and balance payment shall be released subject to fulfilment of all other conditions. Final 2% shall be released
only after completion of contractual obligations.
6.1.2
For Indian Vendors (Special Case):

 Hundred percent (100%) of basic price of materials and 100% of Packing & Forwarding, Freight, and
Transit Insurance (if applicable) supplied as per PO for supply items mentioned under Annexure-14
or if specified in SCC, shall be payable on receipt of material at site on completion of total supplies or
completion of each lot as defined as per PO Terms, on submission of each of the following:

Copy of MRC or acknowledged LR/Proof of Delivery copy duly signed by BHEL site/customer with
clear date of receipt of material at site.

Other documents listed at Cl. 6.7
NOTE:

All documents are to be submitted directly to Purchaser and not through bank.

In case of part supplies, as regards basic price, only 90% shall be released as above on pro-rata
basis and balance 10% shall be released on completion of total supplies or completion of each lot
as defined as per PO Terms.
6.1.3
For Foreign Vendors:
 Eighty percent (80%) of basic price of materials supplied, as per PO shall be paid against Bill of lading/
AWB on pro-rata basis.
 Ten percent (10%) of basic price of materials supplied (along-with freight charges, if any), as per PO,
shall be paid against Import General Manifest (IGM)/ Bill of Entry on pro-rata basis.
 Final Ten percent (10%) of the basic price of materials supplied will be retained as security deposit
which will be released on:

completion of all supplies of the contract

receipt of Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from project site engineer of owner/purchaser

submission of all final documents as per technical specification

and on submission of Documents listed at Cl. 6.7
6.2
SUPPLY PAYMENT FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES (E&C IN VENDOR’S SCOPE)
6.2.1
For Indian Vendors:
 Eighty five percent (85%) of basic price of materials supplied, as per approved billing schedule, and
100% of Packing & Forwarding, Freight, and Transit Insurance (if applicable) supplied as per PO (and/or
approved billing schedule), shall be payable on receipt of material at site on pro-rata basis on
submission of each of the following:

acknowledged LR/Proof of Delivery copy duly signed by BHEL site/customer with clear date of
receipt of material at site.

Other documents listed at Cl. 6.7
 Fifteen percent (15%) of the basic price of materials supplied will be retained as security deposit which
will be released as below:

Five percent (5%) of basic price of materials supplied will be released on pro-rata basis after
submission of Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from project site engineer of Owner/ Purchaser.
Collection of Material Receipt Certificate from Site/ Owner and its submission for claiming the
payment shall be the responsibility of the Seller/ Contractor.

Final Ten percent (10%) of the total basic price shall be released after:

completion of all supplies of the contract

successful completion of erection and commissioning
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

22

successful completion of Performance Guarantee (PG)/ Demonstration Test and handing
over of the system/ package, if applicable, as per Order/ Contract

and on submission of Documents listed at Cl. 6.7

NOTE: If the Performance Guarantee/ Demonstration Test is not conducted up to 24 months from E&C
completion for reasons not attributable to the vendor, then last 10% payment will be released on submission
of all other documents as defined above and submission of Bank Guarantee of an equivalent amount, valid
till completion of the contractual obligation. However, PBG for contract shall be released only after completion
of contractual obligations.
6.2.2
For Foreign Vendors:
 Eighty five percent (85%) of C&F price of materials supplied, as per approved billing schedule, shall be
paid against Bill of lading/ AWB on pro-rata basis.

Fifteen percent (15%) of the C&F price of materials supplied will be retained as security deposit which
will be released as below:
o
Five percent (5%) of C&F price of materials supplied will be released on pro-rata basis after
submission of Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from project site engineer of Owner/ Purchaser.
Collection of Material Receipt Certificate from Site/ Owner and its submission for claiming the
payment shall be the responsibility of the Seller/ Contractor.
o
Final Ten percent (10%) of the total C&F price shall be released after:
 completion of all supplies of the contract
 successful completion of erection and commissioning
 successful completion of Performance Guarantee (PG)/ Demonstration Test and handing over
of the system/ package, if applicable, as per Order/ Contract
 and on submission of Documents listed at Cl. 6.7

NOTE: If the Performance Guarantee/ Demonstration Test is not conducted up to 24 months from E&C
completion for reasons not attributable to the vendor, then last 10% payment will be released on submission
of all other documents as defined above and submission of Bank Guarantee of an equivalent amount, valid
till completion of the contractual obligation. However, PBG for contract shall be released only after completion
of contractual obligations.
6.3
ERECTION & COMMISSIONING PAYMENT FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES
6.3.1
Eighty percent (80%) payment of basic value on pro-rata basis for the work completed, as per approved
billing schedule, shall be released on submission of protocols, duly signed by BHEL Site/ Owner, and on
submission of other documents specified in the contract, on monthly basis.
6.3.2
Ten percent (10%) of the total basic value shall be released on successful commissioning of the complete
system/ package and on submission of other documents specified in the contract.
6.3.3
Final Ten percent (10%) of the total basic value shall be released on successful completion of PG/
Demonstration test(s) and handing over system/ package to the Owner, as applicable and submission of
Performance bank guarantee.

NOTE: If the Performance Guarantee/ Demonstration Test is not conducted up to 24 months from E&C
completion for reasons not attributable to the vendor, then last 10% payment under clause 6.3.3 will be
released against Bank Guarantee of an equivalent amount, valid for 12 months, provided other conditions of
the contract are complied with. (This bank guarantee will be in addition to Contract Performance Bank
Guarantee for 5% of the contract value excluding taxes, duties and freight).
6.4
PG TEST, INSTALLATION CHECK, SUPERVISION OF ERECTION/COMMISSIONING CHARGES
6.4.1
PAYMENT OF SERVICE(S) CHARGES: Demonstration Charges, PG Test, Installation Check, Supervision
of Erection / Commissioning Charges, Engineering Charges, O&M, Study, Calibration Charges, Type Test,
AMC, etc.

Full (100%) payment shall be released after successful completion of the activity on pro rata basis, on
Site certification/ certification by engineering as applicable and on submission of other documents
specified in the contract.
Payment of O&M and AMC shall be released on quarterly basis after completion of each activity or as
specified in NIT, on Site certification and on submission of other documents specified in the contract
6.5
PAYMENT OF GST
6.5.1
The GST amount on gross value of each invoice shall be claimed by the bidders along with the first stage
payment mentioned under 6.1/ 6.2/ 6.3/ 6.4 above by submission of GST invoice in original as mentioned
under clause 7.0 (Taxes & Duties).
6.5.2
The amount of GST shall be paid to the vendor only upon confirmation of the following:

a)
Receipt of original Tax Invoice strictly as per the format prescribed under the relevant applicable GST
law.
b)
Vendor/ contractor declaring such invoice in GSTR 1/GST-ANX-1 as per the relevant GST Act
c)
The tax component charged by the vendor in the invoice should match with the details uploaded by
vendor in GSTR 1/GST-ANX-2
d)
Confirmation of payment of GST thereon by bidder on GSTN Portal
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

23
e)
Ensuring availability of input credit to BHEL

6.6
RELEASE OF PAYMENT
6.6.1
a) For Indian Vendors:

For every stage payment mentioned herein above, the bidders shall submit a claim/invoice on BHEL
along with all the respective relevant supporting documents mentioned hereinabove or elsewhere. The
payment shall be released within 60 days (45 days for vendors qualified and registered as Micro or
Small as per MSMED Act) after receipt of each claim/invoice along with relevant supporting documents
complete in all respects. Indian vendors shall submit documents for payment directly to BHEL.

b) For Foreign Vendors:

Payment Cl. 6.1.3 and Cl. 6.2.2 will be released within 60 days from date of Bill of Lading/AW through
irrevocable LC (LC opening/ negotiation/ confirmation charges will be to vendor’s account and the LC
usance period shall be 90 days OR as per the purchase order terms).

All other payments will be released within 60 days after receipt of complete documents as per order/
contract and/or mentioned hereinabove or elsewhere.

NOTE: Any negative PVC, balance recoverable if any, balance recoverable penalty, etc. if not adjusted in
earlier payments, will be adjusted at the time of final payment
6.7
DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED BY VENDOR
6.7.1
FOR RECOGNITION OF DISPATCH
Copy of the following documents to be submitted by the vendor to the Purchase Officer by e-mail immediately
on movement of the goods:
a)
GST compliant Invoice
b)
Consignee copy of LR / Courier Slip/ Bill of Lading or AWB for foreign vendor
c)
Packing List (indicating No. of boxes, packing size, gross weight and net weight of each package,
Contents of the package with cross reference to BoM item code no. or item serial no. and Quantity of
each item separately)
d)
Insurance Intimation to underwriter through email/fax
e)
E-way bill
Softcopies of the above documents shall be mailed to the concerned purchase officer of BHEL within the
same calendar month of dispatch of Goods else penalty shall be levied as per the GST act.
6.7.2
For Claiming Initial Payments (by Indian Vendors):
a.
GST compliant Invoice ( 2 sets of Originals )
b.
Consignee copy of LR / Courier Slip (in original)
c.
Copy of Receipted LR (signed & stamped by BHEL site/customer with clear date of receipt of material
at site.)/ confirmation from site regarding receipt of packages/ Boxes original
d.
Copy or Bill of lading/ AWB for foreign vendors.
e.
Packing List (indicating No. of boxes, packing size, gross weight and net weight of each package,
Contents of the package with cross reference to BoM item code no. or item serial no. and Quantity of
each item separately)
f.
PVC Calculation and copy of all applicable indices, if PVC applicable
g.
MDCC from BHEL/ Customer
h.
Guarantee Certificate
i.
Contract performance Bank guarantee, if applicable
j.
CQIR / Inspection Reports
k.
Duty drawback documents, if applicable.
l.
Any other documents as mentioned in SCC/Dispatch instructions (DI)
6.7.3
For Claiming Initial Payments (by Foreign Vendors):
a.
Invoice
b.
Bill of Lading or AWB
c.
Import General Manifest (IGM)/ Bill of Entry and shipping bill indicating freight amount
d.
Packing List: Must be indicating No. of boxes, Packing size, Gross weight and net weight of each
package, Contents of the package with cross reference to BoM item code no. or item serial no. and
Quantity of each item separately
e.
Guarantee Certificate
f.
COO - Certificate of Origin

Documents required for foreign vendors claiming payments under clause 6.1.2, 6.2.2, and 6.3.2 – Import
General Manifest (IGM)/ Bill of Entry and shipping bill indicating freight amount.
6.7.4
For Claiming Final Payment:
a.
Commercial Invoice for 10% value– Original + 1 copy
b.
Copy of Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from project site engineer of owner/purchaser
c.
Certificate of submission of all final documentation duly certified by purchaser’s Engineering
department
d.
Proof of submission of PBG (IF applicable)
e.
Clearance letter for final payment duly certified by purchaser’s commercial/project department
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

24
f.
No Claim Certificate (full and final payment for the contract)
g.
TCS certificate of vendor.

NOTE: Any negative PVC, balance recoverable if any, balance recoverable penalty, etc. if not adjusted in
earlier payments, will be adjusted at the time of final payment
6.7.5
For Claiming Payment of Services (under clause 6.3, 6.4):
a.
GST compliant Invoice (2 sets of Originals )
b.
Certificate of completion of the service duly certified by site engineer/Owner
Other documents specified hereinabove or elsewhere in the contract
6.8
BHEL’S BANKERS
6.8.1
Please refer attached Annexure for list of BHEL’s Consortium Banks or visit BHEL website www.bhel.com.
6.9
MODE OF PAYMENT
6.9.1
Payments shall be made directly to the Seller/ Contractor by E-transfer. Seller/ Contractor to provide
necessary information for the same as per Annexure–6.
Note: Option of payment through TReDS is also available to MSME vendors.
6.9.2
No interest shall be payable by the Purchaser on the security amount, bank guarantee amount or balance
payment or any money which may become due owing to difference or misunderstanding or any dispute
between the Purchaser and the Contractor, or any delay on the part of Purchaser in making periodical or final
payment or any other aspects incidental thereto.
7.0
TAXES AND DUTIES
7.1
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (GST) (includes CGST/SGST/UTGST/IGST)
7.1.1
Seller/ Contractor is required to ensure that GST is quoted as per the existing tariff on the date of the offer
and all benefits as per existing laws have been considered
7.1.2
The quoted rates shall be exclusive of GST but inclusive of all other taxes including any cess or surcharge or
tax by whatever name called, imposed under GST law or any other law at any time, of which input credit is
not available to BHEL under any interpretation of the law.
7.1.3
GST at the applicable rates shall be payable extra. However, the same shall not be paid if the input credit
thereof is not available to BHEL due to any reason attributable to the supplier/bidder.
7.1.4
It is the responsibility of the seller/contractor to issue the Tax Invoice strictly as per the format prescribed
under the relevant applicable GST law.
7.1.5
The bidder shall indicate HSN (Harmonised System Nomenclature) / SAC (Service Accounting Code), its
description and applicable rate of GST for each item/ package in his techno-commercial bid. However, the
decision of BHEL about the GST HSN/SAC Number, is binding on the bidders.
7.1.6
IGST/CGST/SGST/UTGST: Rate of Tax to be quoted as extra in percentage (%). Bidders to ensure correct
applicability of IGST/CGST/SGST/UTGST based on the Inter/Intra state movement of goods.
7.1.7
In case Bidder has opted for GST Composition Scheme, the same may be stated explicitly both in their
technical and price bids. No GST will be reimbursed to unregistered or composite dealer. In the event, any
GST is quoted by composite dealer, the same shall be added to the cost of supply in evaluating the bid.
7.1.8
TDS under GST as and when applicable, shall be deducted at prevailing rates.
7.1.9
GST as applicable on the LD/Penalty shall also be recoverable in addition to LD/Penalty applicable on
delayed supplies.
7.1.10
SUPPLY: Bidders have to issue GST compliant invoices showing:
1.
BHEL PE&SD R C Puram Hyderabad GSTIN No.36AAACB4146P1ZG under “Details of Receiver
(Billed To)
2.
BHEL’s Customers details (mentioned in SCC/Dispatch Instructions) under “Details of Consignee
(Shipped To)
3.
State of Telangana as the “Place of Supply” irrespective of where the goods are shipped to, since
these transactions fall under Section 10(1)(b) of the IGST Act in case of suppliers from outside
Telangana.

Details of dispatch comprising of copies of GST Invoice, LR/ delivery challan, packing list etc., have to be
submitted to BHEL immediately on dispatch.
In the event of any delay in submission of these document to BHEL and/or any documentary discrepancies,
any consequential financial implication to BHEL, including interest loss on discharge of BHEL’s GST liability,
denial of input credit of GST, etc., shall be recoverable from the supplier/bidder.
7.1.11
SERVICES (E&C, Supervision of E&C, Civil Works etc.): Bidders have to issue GST compliant invoices
showing:

BHEL, State of ______________(State in which the project site is located) GSTIN of BHEL in such State (to
be obtained by the bidders before raising any invoice) under “Details of Receiver (Billed To)

BHEL’s Customers details (mentioned in SCC/Dispatch Instructions) under “Details of Consignee (Shipped
To) State in which the project is located, as the “Place of Supply”.
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

25

The invoices shall be raised within the time limit prescribed under the GST law. In the event of any delay in
submission of the invoice to BHEL, any consequential financial implication to BHEL, including interest loss on
discharge of BHEL’s GST liability, denial of input credit of GST, etc., shall be recoverable from the
supplier/bidder.
7.1.12
Supplier to take cognizance of TCS compliance on account of section 206C(1H) of Finance Act, 2020.
BHEL’s PAN for this purpose is: AAACB4146P. Final payment will be released after receipt of TCS
certificate of vendor.
7.2
OTHER TAXES AND LEVIES
7.2.1
All taxes/ duties/ Cess / surcharge other than GST shall be deemed to be included in the basic Ex-Works
prices by the seller/contractor.
No variation for such taxes and levies shall be paid in any circumstance even if the same are mentioned
anywhere in the bids by the bidders
7.3
CUSTOMS DUTY
7.3.1
Applicable Customs Duty/ IGST/ Goods and Services Compensation Cess (as per the relevant GOI
orders/Acts) element for imported items shall be included in the Basic Ex-Works prices
No variation in customs duty and exchange rate for imported items shall be payable by purchaser.
7.3.2
Seller/Contractor shall arrange for his own import license, if required, since purchaser will not provide any
import license. Therefore, seller/ contractor alone shall be responsible for any delay in getting import license
or non-availability of the same or completion of other related formalities. Purchaser shall not be responsible
for any financial liability, whatsoever, on this account
7.3.3
IMPORTED GOODS OFFERED BY INDIAN BIDDERS AGAINST DEALER INVOICE: Wherever the material
being offered is imported, the bidder must quote the prices inclusive of IGST. The rate and value of IGST as
included in the price must be indicated separately. In case quantum of IGST is not mentioned by the bidder
the same will not be considered for evaluation. However, bidder will have to pass on the benefit of IGST to
BHEL at the time of supply
7.4
DIRECT TAX
7.4.1
Seller is required to update himself on his own and comply with provisions of Indian Income Tax Act as notified
from time to time.
Purchaser shall not be liable towards liability of income tax accruing to the Seller of whatever nature including
variations thereof, arising out of this Order/ Contract, as well as tax liability of the Seller/ Contractor and his
personnel
7.4.2
Deductions of Tax at source (TDS) at the prevailing rates shall be effected by the Purchaser before release
of payment, as a statutory obligation. The Seller/Contractor has to mention their Permanent Account Number
(PAN) and GSTIN in all invoices.
7.5
GST COMPLIANCES
7.5.1
The bidder should be registered with the appropriate authority under relevant GST laws.
The Bidders/Suppliers must comply with all requirements of the GST law as may be prescribed by the
Government from time to time (including provisions related to E-way bills).
7.5.2
Vendor/Supplier will share the Tax invoice along with LR/RR (as applicable) to BHEL immediately on removal
of goods from vendor/supplier works OR/and his sub-vendor works
7.5.3
Vendor/Supplier will ensure filing of timely return and payment of tax and compliance of other applicable
provisions on him under GST regime.
7.5.4
In the event of any change in the status of vendor from composite to regular dealer after the submission of
the bid but before the supply, no reimbursement of additional GST will be made. However, the vendor has to
raise the invoice strictly, as per the law, by adjusting their ex-works price
7.5.5
In the event of any non-compliance to any of the requirements of the GST law by the supplier/bidder, any
consequential financial implication to BHEL, including interest on delayed discharge of BHEL’s GST liability,
denial of input credit of GST, etc., shall be recoverable from the supplier/bidder.
7.5.6
Bidder must ensure compliance of all the applicable rules and procedure as envisaged in the GST Regime.
Any loss to BHEL due to fault / non-compliance by the bidder will be to the bidder’s account.
7.6
GST PAYMENTS AND RECOVERIES
7.6.1
All payments against Tax Invoice shall be released only after confirmation of payment of GST thereon by
vendor on GSTN portal.
7.6.2
Payment of GST to vendors will be only after correct filing of return and payment of applicable GST by bidder,
reimbursement of GST shall be made by BHEL on matching of bidder inputs at GST portal, ensuring
availability of input credit to BHEL.
7.6.3
In case, any GST credit is delayed/denied to BHEL due to non/delayed receipt of goods and/or tax invoice or
expiry to timeline prescribed in the relevant GST Act for availing such ITC, or any other reasons not
attributable to BHEL, tax amount shall be recoverable from the vendor/contractor along with interest levied/
leviable on BHEL
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

26
7.6.4
In general, GST shall be paid at actuals against Tax Invoice but restricted to the amount and percentage in
the order/contract
7.6.5
However, BHEL will reimburse the actual applicable tax even if the same is higher than the amount quoted
by the bidder and considered in the order/contract in case BHEL is able to take the input tax credit. The
decision of BHEL in this regard will be final and binding on the seller/contractor
7.6.6
Wherein GST liability arises on BHEL under reverse charge, any interest levied/ leviable due to any reasons
not attributable to BHEL shall be recovered from the vendor/contractor.
7.6.7
In the event of any disallowance of input credit or applicability of interest or any other financial liability arises
on BHEL due to any default of bidder under GST, such recoveries/ litigations/ implications shall be to bidder’s
account.
8.0
STATUTORY VARIATION
8.0.1
It is the responsibility of the vendor/contractor to inform themselves of the correct rates of GST, customs or
other duties or taxes leviable on the materials at the time of tendering. If the rates assumed by the bidder are
less than the correct rates prevailing at the time of tendering the bidder will be responsible for such errors.
8.0.2
In general, Statutory variation for GST is payable to the vendor/contractor during currency of the contract
between BHEL and vendor/contractor. Further, for period beyond the currency of the contract, BHEL will
reimburse the actual applicable tax even if the same is higher than the amount applicable within the
contractual period in case BHEL is able to take the input tax credit. However, the decision of BHEL in this
regard will be final and binding on the vendor/contractor, otherwise vendor/contractor has to bear the
differential upward increase in tax and ex- works price is to be adjusted accordingly.
8.0.3
In the event of no change in law but bidder quoting certain tax structure in bid document which is lower than
the applicable one, such amount shall be the maximum amount of tax that can be claimed by bidder.
8.0.4
No other variations such as on customs duty/ exchange rate/ minimum wages, prices of controlled
commodities or any other input, etc. shall be payable by BHEL.
9.0
BANK GUARANTEE
9.1
CONTRACT PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE (CPBG)
9.1.1
Bank Guarantee is required to be submitted where installation / E&C / Civil is in the scope of seller/contractor
or if mentioned so in the SCC/NIT.
9.1.2
The vendor shall submit Contract Performance Bank Guarantee (as per Annexure-8) for five percent (5%)
of Supply Order value and E&C /Civil value (including value of spares excluding taxes, duties & freight) within
thirty (30) days from placement of order OR before first submission of documents for payment.

In the event of non-receipt of the bank guarantee, the order is liable to be cancelled at the discretion of BHEL.
In case PO is not cancelled and in absence of a valid bank guarantee, the equivalent amount of the BG shall
be recovered from payment due to the Seller/ Contractor, before releasing any payment, which shall be
refunded on completion of supplies or on submission of required BG.

Foreign vendors seeking payment through Letter of Credit (LC) should submit the Bank Guarantee before LC
opening.
9.1.3
In case of turnkey packages, separate BGs shall be submitted for Supply portion & Service (E&C and /or
Civil) portion.
9.1.4
Value of the Bank Guarantee (at the time of submission) shall remain unchanged for any subsequent
variations in order/ contract value up to ten percent (10%). Beyond this, the Seller/ Contractor shall arrange
to enhance or reduce the value of the Bank Guarantee accordingly.
9.1.5
Validity of the Bank Guarantee shall be initially for the entire original contract period plus six months claim
period and extended till completion of supplies, plus three months claim period.
9.1.6
Purchaser reserves the right to encash the Bank Guarantee and forfeit the amount in the event of any default,
failure or neglect on part of the Seller/ Contractor in fulfilment of performance of the Order/ Contract OR in
the event GST credit is delayed / denied to BHEL due to non/delayed receipt of goods and / or tax invoice or
expiry to timeline prescribed in the relevant act for availing such Input Tax Credit or any other reasons not
attributable to BHEL
9.1.7
Seller/ contractor shall be required to submit additional Bank Guarantee and claim for release of the relevant
milestone payment mentioned under Cl. No. 06 (Terms of Payment). Seller/contractor may opt to extend the
existing BG to cover the entire guarantee period OR submit a new BG. Validity of the Bank Guarantee shall
be for the entire guarantee period plus six months claim period. Purchaser reserves the right to encash the
Bank Guarantee and forfeit the amount in the event of any breach of guarantee conditions. The release of
payment shall be at the discretion of buyer.
9.1.8
Validity of bank guarantee shall be extended one month prior to its expiry if required to meet the contractual
conditions.
9.1.9
Bank Guarantees shall be from Consortium Bank as per list and directives on www.bhel.com.
9.1.10
In case of private sector banks, a clause is to be incorporated in the text of bank guarantee that it can be
enforced by being presented at any branch of the bank located in Hyderabad and in case of turnkey packages,
at any branch of the bank located in the Head Quarter of PO issuing agency.
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

27
9.2
PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE (PBG)
9.2.1
The vendor shall submit Performance Bank Guarantee (as per Annexure-9) for five percent (5%) of Supply
Order value (including value of spares excluding taxes, duties & freight) and in case of turnkey packages, five
percent (5%) of Supply order value and E&C/Civil value (including value of spares excluding taxes, duties &
freight).
9.2.2
In case of turnkey packages, separate BGs shall be submitted for Supply portion & Service (E&C/Civil)
portion.
9.2.3
Submission of this Bank Guarantee shall be a pre-condition for release of the relevant milestone payment
mentioned under Cl. No. 06 (Terms of Payment).
9.2.4
Validity of the Bank Guarantee shall be for the entire Guarantee period plus six months claim period.
9.2.5
Purchaser reserves the right to encash the Bank Guarantee and forfeit the amount in the event of any breach
of guarantee conditions.
9.2.6
Bank Guarantees shall be from Consortium Bank as per list and directives on www.bhel.com.
9.2.7
In case of private sector banks, a clause to be incorporated in the text of bank guarantee that it can be
enforced by being presented at any branch of the bank located in the Hyderabad and in case of turnkey
packages, at any branch of the bank located in the Head Quarter of PO issuing agency.
9.3
STAMP DUTY FOR BANK GUARANTEE
9.3.1
The Bank Guarantee (BG) shall be executed on non-judicial stamp paper and shall be submitted along with
Covering Letter from Bank. The Stamp Duty for BG issued in the State of Telangana is hereunder:

Value of Bank Guarantee
Applicable Rate of Stamp Duty
A
Below INR 2,00,000/-
Rs. 100/-
B
INR 2,00,000/- and above
Rs. 200/-

If BG is issued from any other states the applicable stamp duty in that state or the stamp duty in Telangana,
whichever is higher has to be paid. Also, for each extension of any Bank Guarantee, the stamp is to be duly
paid.
10.0
DELIVERY FAILURE AND LIQUIDATED DAMAGES / PENALTY
10.0.1
It should be clearly understood by the Seller/Contractor that time and the date of delivery of despatch
stipulated in the order is the essence of the contract. If the Seller/Contractor fails to complete the
dispatch/delivery and other schedules within the time period stipulated in Order/Contract, or within any
extension of time granted by Purchaser, it shall be lawful for purchaser to recover damages for breach of
Order/Contract and hereunder, without prejudice to any other rights and / or remedies provided for in the
contract. To be entitled to impose such damage, Purchaser will not be required to prove that he has incurred
such amount as actual damage.
10.1
LD FOR DELAYED DELIVERY
10.1.1
Purchaser reserves the right to recover from the Seller/ Contractor, as agreed liquidated damages (LD), a
sum equivalent to half percent (1/2%) and applicable GST thereon of the total main supply contract price
excluding GST, per week or part thereof subject to a maximum of ten percent (10%) of total main supply
contract price excluding GST, if the seller/contractor has failed to deliver any part of equipment/ item within
the period fixed for delivery.
10.1.2
If an Order/Contract (for procurement of non-Capital Goods) involves staggered delivery schedule, then
LD/Penalty shall be levied at half (1/2) percent of the undelivered portion per week of delay or part thereof
subject to a maximum of 10% of the total contract price.
10.1.3
Where delivery for mandatory spares is defined separately in the NIT, LD shall be applicable @ half percent
(1/2%) and applicable GST thereon, of the total mandatory spares portion of contract value excluding GST
per week or part thereof, limiting to 10% of total contract value of mandatory spares excluding GST.
10.1.4
For Supply Packages & Supply Portion of Turnkey packages: Site-acknowledged LR/ GR/ RR date for
indigenous supplies (Bill of Lading/ AWB for Foreign supplies) shall be treated as the date of dispatch for
levying LD.
10.2
LD FOR DELAYED SERVICES
10.2.1
For Supervision of E&C: Liquidated Damages / Penalty shall not be applicable.
10.2.2
For Civil/E&C Portion of Turnkey packages: Liquidated Damages/Penalty shall be levied at the rate of half
percent (1/2%) and applicable GST thereon of the total Civil/E&C contract price excluding GST, per week
or part thereof on total Civil/E&C order price excluding GST, if Civil/E&C completion of the package is delayed
beyond the contractual completion date or extension thereof. However, total LD (main supply and services)
shall be limiting to 10% of cumulative total contract value (main supply +services) excluding GST.
10.3
OTHER LD TERMS
10.3.1
In case of any amendment/ revision, LD shall be linked to the amended/ revised contract value and delivery
date(s).
GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

28
10.3.2
In the event of LD/penalty is imposed by the purchaser/seller, such LD shall attract applicable GST which
shall be recovered along with the applicable LD/Penalty. Corresponding tax invoice will be issued to
seller/contractor.
10.3.3
Purchaser reserves the right to deduct the amount of such LD/Penalty from any money due or which may
become due to the Seller/ Contractor and/or recover such LD/Penalty from the bank guarantees/ security
deposit of the Seller/ Contractor.
10.3.4
Purchaser reserves the right to purchase from elsewhere on account of and at the risk and cost of Seller/
Contractor, with notice to Seller/ Contractor, the equipment/package/system due for delivery but not so
delivered, or their equivalent without cancelling the Order/ Contract in respect of equipment/package/system
not yet due for delivery. The manner and method of such purchase shall be at the discretion of the Purchaser.
10.3.5
Purchaser reserves the right to cancel the Order/ Contract or a portion thereof for the
equipment/package/system not so delivered at the risk and cost of the Seller/ Contractor and the Seller/
Contractor shall be liable to the Purchaser for any excess cost thereof.
10.3.6
Seller/ Contractor shall continue performance of the Order/ Contract, under all circumstances, to the extent
not cancelled.
11.0
RECOVERY OF OUTSTANDING AMOUNT
11.0.1
In event of any amount of money being outstanding at any point of time against the Seller/ Contractor due to
excess payment, imposition of liquidated damages, invocation of risk and cost clause or any other reason
whatsoever, in the present order/ contract or any other order/ contract from any BHEL Unit, the outstanding
amount shall be recovered from the payments due to the Seller/ Contractor from the following:
 Dues available in the form of bills payable to Seller, Security Deposit, BGs against the same contract
 Dues payable to Seller against other contracts in the same Region/Unit/Division of BHEL.
 Dues payable to Seller against other contracts in the different Region/Unit/Division of BHEL
any other mode as deemed fit by the Purchaser at its sole discretion including legal options for recovery of
dues.

GCTC-2

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

29
PART-3: ENGINEERING, INSPECTION, GUARANTEES
12.0
ENGINEERING/QUALITY DOCUMENTS
12.1
ENGINEERING DOCUMENTS SUBMISSION
12.1.1
The Engineering documents (data sheets/ drawings, etc.) shall be submitted for Purchaser’s approvals within
15 days from the day of the issue of purchase order/ LoI/ LoA unless otherwise mentioned in the NIT. All
engineering document submission by vendors after award of contract shall be done as per the Order Execution
Schedule/ Instructions provided with the Technical Specification.
12.2
QUALITY DOCUMENTS SUBMISSION
12.2.1
Quality plan shall be submitted for Purchaser’s approvals within 15 days from the day of the issue of purchase
order/LOI/LOA. If standard QAPs are furnished with the NIT, the same shall be followed and submitted with
bidders stamp as token of acceptance of the same.
12.3
MISTAKE IN DRAWINGS
12.3.1
The Engineer shall have the right at all reasonable times to inspect at the office/ premises of contactor all shop
and/ or detailed drawings of the works or any portion of the works. The Contractor shall be responsible for and
shall undertake without any commercial implications, any alternations of the work due to any discrepancies,
errors or omission in the drawings or other particulars supplied by him whether such drawings or particulars
has been approved by the Engineer or not, provided that such discrepancies, errors or omissions be not due
to inaccurate information or particulars furnished to the contractor by the Engineer.
13.0
AVAILABILITY OF SPARES
13.0.1
Vendor to keep BHEL informed by giving six (6) months advance notice for discontinuation of manufacturing
of the spares, mentioned/ required in the order.
14.0
INSPECTION AND TESTING AT CONTRACTOR'S PREMISES
14.0.1
The material/equipment/system or package shall be manufactured as per contract specifications, approved
drawings and quality assurance plan. Vendor/ Contractor shall be fully responsible for the quality of products&
materials supplied by his sub-contractors.
Non-conformance if any from the contract specifications and approved quality assurance plan shall be reported
by the vendor/ Contractor well in advance and seek purchaser’s acceptance before proceeding further.
14.0.2
Vendor /contractor shall perform all standard shop tests, physical and chemical tests required by the standards
or as may be prescribed or approved as per Order/ Contract.
Purchaser/ Inspection Agency reserves the right to waive any of the specified tests requirements and/or to
prescribe new tests, if found necessary, to complete the work so as to conform to the best practices.
The inspection shall be as per the standard quality assurance plan issued with the NIT or the approved quality
assurance plan whichever is later.
14.0.3
In the event of rejection, Purchaser shall inform the seller accordingly and Purchaser shall be entitled to
replacement or repair at his discretion or may proceed to terminate or cancel the agreement. All this, does not
affect Purchaser’s right to recover compensation.
14.0.4
Purchaser or his nominated inspection agency shall have at all reasonable times access to vendor/contractor's
premises or works and shall have the power at all reasonable times to inspect drawings of any portion of the
work or examine the materials and workmanship of the plant/ equipment/ stores during their manufacture, and
if part of the plant/ equipment/ stores is manufactured at other premises, the vendor/ Contractor shall arrange
for inspection, examination and testing by the Inspection Agency as if the plant/ equipment/ stores is
manufactured on the Seller/ Contractor's premises.
Such inspection, examination, and testing, if made shall not release the seller from any obligation under the
contract and his responsibilities for meeting all the requirements of the contract.
14.0.5
Inspection calls should be raised by the vendor/ Contractor on BHEL CQS Website/CQIR website link
mentioning all the details and uploading the requisite documents.
14.0.6
Vendor/ Contractor shall give reasonable notice of any material being ready for testing and the Inspection
Agency shall (unless the inspection of tests is voluntarily waived) attend at the vendor/ Contractor's premises
within seven (7) days of the date on which the material is notified as being ready.

Inspection shall be performed as per the approved quality assurance plan by purchase and /or his nominated
agency and/or the end customer.

In case of delay in witnessing of inspection beyond stipulated time (i.e. 7 days from the date on which the
material is notified as being ready), by BHEL arising due to reasons not attributable to vendor, BHEL will extend
the delivery period for such delay in carrying out inspection. If BHEL is not able to witness inspection up to 15
days then in addition to delay beyond stipulated period, extension in delivery time of 7 days for arranging fresh
inspection will be given
14.0.7
The vendor/contractor shall maintain & ensure necessary safety measures as required for performing
inspections & tests like HV test, Pneumatic test, Hydraulic test, Bend & tensile test, load test, etc.
14.0.8
For indigenous suppliers, all costs related to first inspection request shall be borne by the purchaser and the
cost of subsequent inspections due to non-readiness of material/rework/ rejections shall be borne by the
seller/vendor/contractor.
GCTC-3

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

30
In case of imports all inspection, charges including third party inspections if any shall be borne by the
seller/vendor/contractor.
The cost of inspection staff/third party specified by the Purchaser shall be borne by seller unless otherwise
specifically agreed. Whether the contract provides for tests on the premises of the seller or any of his sub-
contractor/s, seller shall be responsible to provide such assistance, labor, materials, electricity, fuels, stores,
apparatus, instruments as may be required and as may be reasonably demanded to carry out such tests
efficiently.
14.0.9
Cost of any type test or such other special tests shall be borne by the seller unless otherwise specifically agreed
in the contract. The Seller shall give the authorized representative of the purchaser reasonable notice in writing
of the date on and the place at which the product will be ready for inspection/ testing as provided in the Contract.
The timelines for execution of contract mentioned in the technical specification or elsewhere in the NIT shall
be strictly be complied with. Any delay in submission of the documents by the vendor will not alter the delivery
date.
14.1
INSPECTION MEASURING AND TEST EQUIPMENTS
14.1.1
Inspection Measuring and Test Equipment (IMTE) whether used by the vendor/ Contractor or sub-contractor
shall be calibrated, maintained and controlled. Calibration shall be valid and IMTE maintained in sound
condition during usage.
Responsibility of usage of valid and calibrated IMTEs by his sub-contractor(s) shall be of the vendor/ contractor.
In case, calibration records are required by purchaser, copies of the same shall be furnished.
14.1.2
The vendor/ Contractor, shall provide free of charge such assistance, labour, materials, electricity, fuel, water,
stores, apparatus, measuring instruments and test equipment including any other facilities as may be
reasonably required to carry out such tests & inspection efficiently
14.2
MATERIAL DESPATCH CLEARANCE (DI) / INSPECTION RELEASE NOTE (IRN)
14.2.1
When the tests have been satisfactorily completed at Seller/ Contractor's works, the Inspection Agency shall
issue a certificate (IRN) to that effect within fifteen (15) days after completion of the tests, but if the tests were
not witnessed by the Inspection Agency or his representative, the certificate would be issued within fifteen (15)
days after receipt of the test certificates by the Purchaser.
14.2.2
Vendor/Contractor shall forward to the Purchaser, inspection reports, test certificates, raw material test
certificates, etc. as called for.
14.2.3
Purchaser/ Owner will issue dispatch clearance along with the necessary dispatch instructions (DI) to the
Seller/ Contractor based on inspection report/ test certificates
14.2.4
Seller/Contractor shall not dispatch any material before issue of dispatch clearance by purchaser/
Owner.
14.2.5
Satisfactory completion of tests or issue of MDCC shall not bind the Purchaser/ Owner to accept the supply/
equipment should it, on further tests after erection, be found not to comply with the contract provisions.
14.2..6
Vendor/ Contractor shall arrange copy of acknowledged LR from the project site, duly signed by BHEL Site
representative after receipt of the material at site and submit the same to purchaser for claiming the payment.
14.2.7
In case of delay in issuance of dispatch clearance beyond 2 days stipulated time (i.e. from the date of
successful inspection report), by BHEL arising due to reasons not attributable to vendor, BHEL will extend the
delivery period for such delay in issuing MDCC.
14.3
STORAGE INSTRUCTIONS
14.3.1
Vendor/Contractor shall be required to submit detailed instructions for storage of supplies within three months
of date of issue of LOA/ Order/ Contract or before dispatch of the goods. Specific storage requirements if any
shall be submitted and also marked on the package.
In case storage instruction available in technical specification of the tender, same shall be followed by the
vendors
14.4
QUALITY ASSURANCE DOCUMENTS
14.4.1
The vendor shall be required to submit the following Quality Assurance Documents (in original + one copy)
within 2 weeks after dispatch of the equipment:

a.
Inspection reports duly certified by inspection agency
b.
routine test reports
c.
type test reports
d.
test certificates/report of components
e.
other factory test results for tests as per applicable codes and specified in approved QA plan &
technical specification.
15.0
INTERCHANGEABILITY AND CHANGES
15.0.1
All similar components or parts of similar equipment (including spares and replacements) supplied by Seller/
Contractor shall be interchangeable with one another.
15.0.2
Even though all the work and materials necessary for satisfactory completion of the works may not be detailed
in the specifications and schedules, the cost will be considered to be within the contract price and no extra
charges shall be payable. However, if there are substantial changes in the specifications of the stores/ plant,
consequential changes in prices shall be mutually agreed between Purchaser and Seller/ Contractor.
GCTC-3

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

31
16.0
GUARANTEE/ WARRANTY FOR PLANT/ EQUIPMENT/ SYSTEM/ PACKAGE
16.0.1
Seller/ Contractor shall warrant that the equipment/item/system/package supplied (including the supplies from
his sub-vendors) shall be free from all defects and faults in design & engineering, material, workmanship &
manufacture and shall be of the highest grade and consistent with the established and generally accepted
standards and in full conformity with the Order/ Contract specifications, drawing or samples, if any.
16.0.2
The warranty period shall be as under:
a) Warranty period for Supply packages shall be twenty-four (24) months from the date of last dispatch or
as specified in SCC.
b) Warranty period for Supply packages with Supervision of E&C shall be twenty-four (24) months from
the date of last dispatch or eighteen (18) months from the date of commissioning, whichever is earlier or
as specified in SCC.
c) Warranty period for Supply packages with E&C / Turnkey packages shall be twenty-four (24) months
from the date of last dispatch or eighteen (18) months from the date of commissioning, whichever is later
or as specified in SCC.
d) Warranty period for the replaced/repaired equipment/item shall be twelve (12) months from the date of
such repair/replacement(s).
Warranty period for Supply packages with E&C and O&M / Turnkey packages shall be twelve (12) months
from the date of completion of O&M or as specified in SCC.
16.0.3
Seller/ Contractor's liability in respect of any complaints, defects and claims shall not be limited to supply and
installation of replaced parts free of charge, or repair of defective parts to the extent that such replacements
are attributable to or arise from faulty workmanship, material or design, in the manufacture, of the
equipment/item/system/package but at the option of the Purchaser, to the payment of the value, expenditure
and damages as mentioned hereafter, provided defects on being discovered are brought to the notice of the
Seller/ Contractor within a period of three (3) months from the date of expiry of the guarantee period.
16.0.4
All replacements and repairs during the Warranty period shall be delivered and completed promptly and
satisfactorily within a period of three months from the time of reporting the defect/ loss/ rejection etc. If the
Seller/ Contractor so desires and the Purchaser agrees, subject to import control regulations, the replaced
parts can be taken over by Seller/ Contractor or his representative or can be dispatched at Seller/ Contractor's
cost. No claim, whatsoever shall be entertained by Purchaser on account of such replaced parts.
16.0.5
All the replaced and replenished stores shall also be guaranteed as per above clauses.
16.0.6
Decision of Purchaser with regard to Seller/ Contractor's liability and the amount involved, if any, payable by
Seller/ Contractor under the guarantee shall be final, conclusive and binding. However, vendor’s maximum
liability will be limited to the total contract value including taxes, duties, and freight.
17.0
LIST OF STANDARDS FOR REFERENCE
17.0.1


International Standards Organization (ISO)

International Electro-technical Commission
(IEC)

American Society of Mechanical Engineers
(ASME)

American National Standards Institute (ANSI)

American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM)

American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC)

American Wilding Society (AWS)

Architecture Institute of Japan (AIJ)

National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)

National Electrical Manufacturer’s Association
(NEMA)

Japanese Electro-Technical Committee (JEC)

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
(IEEE)

Federal Occupation Safety and Health
Regulations (FOSHA)

Instrument Society of America (ISA)

National Electric Code (NEC)

Heat Exchanger Institute (HEI)

Tubular Exchanger Manufacturer’s Association
(TEMA)


Hydraulic Institute (HIS)

International Electro-Technical Commission
Publications

Power Test Code for Steam Turbines (PTC)

Application German Standards (AGS)

Application British Standards (ABS)

Application Japanese Standards (AJS)

Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)

Standard of Manufacturer’s Standardization
Society (MSS)

Bureau of Indian Standards Institute (BIS)

Indian Electricity Rules

Indian Boiler Regulations (IBR)

Indian Explosives Act

Indian Factories Act

Tariff Advisory Committee (TAC) Rules

Emission regulation of Central Pollution
Control board (CPCB)

Pollution Control regulations of Dept of
Environment Govt of India

Central Board of Irrigation and Power (CBIP)
Publications

Any other statutory Codes/ Standards/ Regulations.

GCTC-3

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

32
PART-4: DISPATCH AND DELIVERY
18.0
DELIVERY TERMS
18.0.1
Terms of delivery shall be Ex-Works including freight up to destination for indigenous supplies and on C&F
for Foreign supplies OR as specified in SCC ( Port of Dispatch shall be as specified in SCC/NIT)
18.0.2
All dispatches shall be through road carriers, on freight pre-paid basis. Road Permit/E-way bill, if required, will
be arranged by Supplier
18.0.3
When the goods are ready for shipment BHEL / owner should be notified by the contractor through e-mail.
Notification of delivery in regard to each and every consignment shall be made to the owner/BHEL at least 48
hours ahead of actual delivery, enabling arrangements for its receipt at the site.
All packages, containers, bundles and loose materials forming part of each and every consignment shall be
described fully in the packing list, and full details of the contents of packages and quantity of goods shall be
submitted to enable the consignee to check the goods on arrival at destination
18.0.4
The vendor/contractor shall submit soft copies of
-GST compliant priced invoice,
- LR or RR and e-way bill,
- packing list of all goods dispatched (refer packing instructions specified elsewhere)
to the seller/Purchaser immediately on dispatch (but not later than 48hours) of the goods. However, the above
documents for the goods dispatched in a calendar month shall be submitted within the last working day of the
month else penalty as per the GST act shall be applicable.
18.0.5
Supply of plant/ equipment/ system/package shall not be considered complete until they have been inspected
and accepted at the place and destination specified for delivery by the time stipulated under the terms &
conditions of the Order/ Contract. Mere payment by itself shall not constitute acceptance of the goods or
materials in any manner, whatsoever.
18.1
TRANSPORT
18.1.1
If for any reason, the contractor has to resort to a mode of transport other than what was contemplated by
them at the time of tendering to keep up the completion schedule and consequently and has to incur more
expenditure, BHEL will not under any circumstances reimburse such extra expenditure and price will not
exceed the firm contract / order price.
18.1.2
All dispatches shall be on freight pre-paid basis.
18.2
PREVENTION OF EXTRAORDINARY TRAFFIC AND PROTECTION OF HIGHWAY
18.2.1
The Contractor shall use every reasonable means to prevent any of the highways of bridges communicating
with or on the routes to the Site from being damaged or injured by any traffic of the contractor or any or his
sub-contractors and in particulars shall select routes, choose and use vehicles and restrict and distribute
loads so that any such extraordinary traffic as will inevitably arise from the moving of Plant and material from
and to the site shall be limited as far as reasonably possible and so that no damage or injury may be
occasioned to such highways and bridges. Should it be found necessary for the Contractor to move one of
more loads or construction plant machinery or reconstructed units or parts of units or work as applicable over
part of a highway or bridge and that the moving of such load must in all probability damage the highway or
bridge unless means of protection of strengthening are carried out then the contractor shall before moving
the load on to such highway or bridge carryout such protection or strengthening at his own cost. If during the
execution of the works or at anytime thereafter BHEL or purchaser shall receive any claim arising out of the
execution of the works in respect of damage or injury to highways or bridges, he shall immediately notify the
same to the contractor and thereafter the contractor shall negotiate the settlement of and pay all sum due in
respect of such claim and shall indemnify BHEL in respect thereof and in respect or all claims demands, cost
charges and expenses in relation thereto.
18.3
DELIVERY TERMS SPECIFIC TO FOREIGN BIDDERS
18.3.1
Goods shall be dispatched by sea or Air, unless stated otherwise in the tender enquiry or purchase order.
18.3.2
In the event of bidder offering CFR delivery terms for delivery in FCL (Full Container Load), the bidder shall
provide 21 days’ time free of detention for General Purchase Container / High Cube Container and 14 days
for the other types from the date of delivery at delivery port. Wherever the detention free period offered is less
than the above specified period, the consequential cost at port of clearance shall be to the account of the
bidder. Number of detention free days must be mentioned on Bill of Lading (BL).
18.3.3
In case of CFR delivery, Port congestion charges or any additional charges claimed by shipping line till
delivery at destination port shall be to the bidder’s account.
18.3.4
Specifically confirm your agreement to change the mode by Air at BHEL's request as per mutually agreed
terms even after placement of Purchase Orders.
18.3.5
The Trans-shipment is not permissible in case of Break Bulk Cargo. In rest of the case Trans-Shipment
condition in BHEL purchase order / letter of credit will be as per Uniform Custom and Practice for documentary
credits, UCP 600 of International Standard Bank proceed re-issued by International chamber of Commerce
(ICC).
18.3.6
No demurrage / godown rent will be payable to the vendor / vendor's transporter for any delay in payments
attributable to the vendor.
GCTC-4

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

33
18.3.7
The shipping line should be ready to move the containers to consignees nominated CFS (Container Freight
Station) yard and Indian agent of shipping line should issue Cargo Arrival Notice (CAN) 7 days in advance for
filing the IGM (Import General Manifest) at discharge port.
18.3.8
In case of CFR contract, bidder to supply the material through a Certified Seaworthy vessel.
18.3.9
A certificate of origin (COO) sanctioned in country of origin from chamber of commerce of the manufacturing
country is mandatory to be provided. However a certificate of origin (COO) from the countries under the
restricted list of Govt. of India will not be acceptable.
18.3.10
For reasons of delay in receipt of documents from suppliers or due to the same being found to be incomplete,
and / or faulty, the suppliers shall be responsible to reimburse in all demurrages / wharfages, if any paid by
BHEL (for stated reasons).
18.3.11
The invoices being issued by shipping lines must be in the name of BHEL. Otherwise, BHEL will have to
forego Input Credit on GST.
18.3.12
While booking the shipment, bidder to also finalize destination charges and the same should appear over BL
or agreed tariff to be provided to BHEL before arrival of shipment.
18.3.13
If cargo is stuffed in container then the same should be allowed to be moved to CFS of importers choice
without any additional charges.
18.3.14
Load port charges shall be settled by the supplier and not be passed on to BHEL in form of destination
charges.
18.3.15
NNDs (Non-Negotiable Documents) (preferably with OBLs) should be sent at least 7 days in advance i.e. 7
days before the arrival of vessel so as to enable BHEL to move the containers to JWC CFS.
18.3.16
Information related to OBL / AWB Documents:
i.
Consignee name and address should be same as mentioned in the Purchase order.
ii.
Notify party: Name and address will be as mentioned in NIT.
iii.
OBL should clearly mention the Indian agent address and contact details.
iv.
OBL should be issued as per UCP 600.
v.
In case of inco-terms other than FOB, OBL should mention the container detention free period.
In case of placement of an Order, BHEL requests bidder to supply one Original Bill of Lading / AWB directly
to their Mumbai office with other non-negotiable documents to ensure timely clearance of goods. The other
Original Bill of Ladings may be routed through bank based on the other agreed terms and conditions of
purchase order.
19.0
PACKING
19.0.1
Packing shall be in conformity with specifications and shall be such as to ensure prevention of damages,
corrosion, deterioration, shortages, pilferage and loss in transit and storage.
19.0.2
The packing shall be capable of withstanding the rigours of transit and handling at various points / ports and
may be provided with fixtures / hooks and sling marks as may be required for safe handling.
19.0.3
In case of shipment by sea, the packing shall be sea-worthy and of international standards.
19.0.4
Each package must be marked with Consignee name, PO number, Package number, Gross weight, Net
weight, dimensions of the package (L x B x H) and seller’s name. The packing shall allow for easy removal
and checking of goods on receipt and comply with established trade practices.
19.0.5
Packing List shall be submitted as per standard format along with advance set of documents for claiming
payment which shall also indicate:
a) Packing size and no. of boxes
b) Gross weight and net weight of each package
c) Contents of the package with reference to BOM/Item no. and quantity of each item separately
One copy of packing list shall be put inside the package, one copy shall be fixed securely to the outside of
the package and one copy shall be submitted along with dispatch documents for claiming payments
19.0.6
If any consignment / package needs special handling requirements, the same shall be clearly marked on the
consignment / package with standard symbols and instructions.
Hazardous materials should be notified and their packing, transportation and other protection must conform
to relevant regulations.
19.0.7
The packing instructions specified in technical specifications and the specific instructions in NIT documents
shall also be referred.
19.1
PACKING FOR SPARES
19.1.1
Different types of spares i.e. start-up/ commissioning spares and initial spares (Mandatory spares and
recommended O&M spares) are to be packed separately. Mandatory and Recommended Spares shall not
be packed with main equipment but shall be packed separately.
19.1.2
Packing of Mandatory Spares should have a Red colour band all around the box/ package and words
“MANDATORY SPARES” written in red colour, same shall also be mentioned on the packing list.
19.1.3
Project, Package description, BHEL’s PO No. and date should also be clearly mentioned on the box.
19.2
COLOUR CODING OF TAGS/ MARKING/ STICKERS
19.2.1
Aluminium stickers are required to be attached to large components, but plastic sheet tags should be tied with
small components, giving details like purchase order, description of the component, quantity etc.
GCTC-4

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

34
19.2.2
Tags should be of the colour as mentioned below:

Main equipment: Yellow or White tag; Mandatory spares: Pink or Red tag;
Start-up/ Commissioning spares: Blue tag; O&M spares: Green tag
20.0
PHYTOSANITARY CERTIFICATE
20.0.1
As per the Indian Law, all consignments being imported into India by air/sea require a phytosanitary certificate
from the country of origin-if articles have been packed with wooden packaging materials. This is mandatory.
Bidder to confirm in his offer/dispatch documents that the required phytosanitary certificate will be submitted.
20.0.2
Packaging material means any kind of material of plant origin used for packing which include hay, straw wood
shavings, wood chips, saw dust, wood waste, wooden pallets, dunnage mats, wooden packages, coir pith,
peat or sphagnum moss etc.
21.0
INSURANCE
21.0.1
Transit insurance policy shall be arranged by BHEL except when specified in vendor’s scope in NIT/SCC.
21.0.2
Vendors shall inform the underwriters appointed/ nominated by BHEL/ Purchaser as communicated in
dispatch instructions(DI), the details of dispatches under intimation to BHEL such as LR No. and date, Truck
No., P.O. No., project and value before the actual dispatch of the goods.
21.0.3
In case the damage / loss / theft of materials are attributable to negligence / failure in discharging the duties
and obligations of the contractor, the expenses incurred for repair / replacement of such components in
excess of the amount realized from the underwriters, limited to Normal Excess (Deductible Franchise) shall
be recovered from the contractor
21.0.4
Insurance as applicable for field work such as third party liability, workmen compensation, Seller/ Contractor's
own Tools & Plants and automobile shall be arranged by the Seller/ Contractor.
22.0
MATERIAL RECEIPT CERTIFICATE
22.0.1
For Supply packages, Material Receipt Certificate shall be arranged by BHEL. Vendor to provide copy of
receipted LRs and other relevant documentation to enable BHEL to obtain MRC from site.
22.0.2
Seller/ Contractor shall arrange Material Receipt Certificate from the project site, duly signed by Purchaser/
Owner Site Engineer after receipt & physical verification of the material at site, wherever E&C is in the scope
of Seller/ Contractor.
23.0
SHORTAGES / DAMAGES
23.0.1
FOR SUPPLY PACKAGES:
In case of shortages/ damages noticed on receipt of materials at site, the contractor should replenish the
same immediately.
a) Replenishment of damages arising out of faulty and insufficient packing will be to the cost of contractor.
b) Shortages in sound cases shall be replenished free of cost by the vendor immediately.
For shortages/ damages during transit/ handling at site upon intimation to vendor within 3 months of receipted
LR, vendor shall supply replacements, as early as possible, at the old contractual rates.
23.0.2
FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES (Supply + E&C Scope):
Any shortages or damages during unloading and handling at site, including at the time of erection and
commissioning, shall be made good by the Seller/ Contractor at his risk and cost, to meet the project schedule.
In case of faults/ discrepancies in any material, component, sub-assembly, assembly, etc., the same shall be
supplied/ replenished free of cost to enable the equipment to be put to service.
23.0.3
In case of faults, deficiencies in materials, components assemblies, subassemblies etc., these are to be
supplied free of cost to enable the equipment to be put in order.
23.1
CONSIGNEE'S RIGHT OF REJECTION
23.1.1
Notwithstanding any approval of Purchaser or Engineer in respect of equipment/system/package or materials
or other particulars or work or workmanship involved in performance of order/ contract (with or without any
test carried out by Seller/ Contractor or Inspection Agency or under direction of Purchase Officer), and
notwithstanding delivery of the equipment/system/package where so provided to the consignee, it shall be
lawful for the consignee, on behalf of the Purchaser, to reject the equipment/system/package or any part/
portion of consignment thereof, within 30 days after actual delivery at the stipulated place or destination, if
such equipment/system/package or part/ portion of consignment thereof is not in conformity with terms and
conditions of order/ contract whether on account of any loss, storage, deterioration or damage before dispatch
or otherwise, whatsoever.
23.1.2
Rejected goods or materials shall be removed by Seller/ Contractor within a period of 30 days from the date
of receipt of notice of such rejection. The expenses to be incurred in respect thereof shall be borne
entirely by the Seller/ Contractor.
23.1.3
In the event of the Seller's failure to comply, Buyer may take action as appropriate, including Repair /
Replenish rejected goods & disposal of rejections, at the risk & cost of the Seller.
23.2
REJECTION OF DEFECTIVE SYSTEM
23.2.1
If the completed system or any portion thereof before it is taken over (under clause taking over) or during the
guarantee / warranty period, be found defective or fails to fulfil the requirements of the contract, the Engineer
shall give the contractor notice setting forth particulars of such defects or failure, and the contractor shall
forthwith make the defective system good by free replacement or alter the same to make it comply with the
GCTC-4

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

35
requirements of the contract without any commercial implication to BHEL. Should he fail to do so within a
reasonable time, BHEL after giving seven (7) days written notice may reject and replace at the cost of the
contractor the whole or any portion of the system, as the case may be, which is defective or fails to fulfil the
requirements of the contract. The contractor’s full and extreme liability to BHEL under this clause shall be
difference, if any between the replacement price of the equipment (including charges for erection and
supervision of erection) and the original contract price including charges for erection and supervision of
erection, in respect of such defective system.
23.2.2
In the event of such rejection, BHEL shall have the right to operate any and/or all equipment as long as it is
in operating condition, whether or not, such equipment has been accepted as complete and satisfactory,
except that this shall not be construed to permit operation of any equipment which may become damaged by
such operation before any required alterations or repairs and /or replacements have been made. All repairs
or alterations or replacements required of the contractor shall be made by the contractor at such times as
directed and in such a manner as will cause the minimum interruption in the use of the equipment. Should the
contractor not so replace the rejected system within the time frame as directed by the engineer to meet the
requirement of the specification, the contractor’s full and extreme liability under this clause will be satisfied by
the repayment of all money paid by BHEL to him in respect of such system.
23.2.3
Nothing in this clause shall be deemed to deprive BHEL or, effect any right under the contract which he may
otherwise have in respect of such defects or deficiencies or in any way relieve the contractor or his obligation
under the contract.
23.3
RISK IN STORES (FOR TURNKEY CONTRACTS)
23.3.1
Seller/ Contractor shall perform the order/ contract in all respects in accordance with terms and
conditions thereof. Stores and every constituent part thereof, whether in possession or control of the Seller/
Contractor, his agents or servants, or a carrier, or in joint possession of Seller/ Contractor, his agent or
servants and Purchaser, his agents or servants, shall remain in every respect at the risk of Seller/ Contractor
until their actual delivery to consignee at the stipulated place or destination or where so provided in
acceptance of offer, until their delivery to a person specified by Purchaser as interim consignee for the purpose
of dispatch to the consignee. Seller/ Contractor shall be solely responsible for all losses, destructions,
damages or deterioration to the plant/ equipment/ stores from any cause whatsoever, while the plant/
equipment/ stores await dispatch after approval by the Inspection Agency.

GCTC-4

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

36
PART-5: SERVICES/ TURNKEY PROJECTS
24.0
SUPERVISION OF ERECTION & COMMISSIONING (if applicable as per NIT/SCC)
24.0.1
The Contractor’s Obligations: The Vendor/Contractor, upon notification and whenever called for by BHEL,
shall provide the services of the competent supervisors:

to give to the Purchaser or his site representative the necessary instructions for the installation and
erection of the system/equipment or package or product.

to supervise the installation and erection of the system/equipment or package or product.

to commission & performance testing of the system/equipment or package or product supplied to the
satisfaction of the site representative
The number and qualifications of the Contractor’s personnel, and the estimated duration of erection, shall be
as included in the contract.
24.0.2
The Purchaser’s Obligations: Erection will be carried out by the power sector region, BHEL/ BHEL Erection
contractor, who shall, at his own expense, provide the skilled and unskilled labour, all erection tools and
everything necessary for the erection of the Product/ Equipment.
24.0.3
Notification of Readiness of the Site: The Purchaser or BHEL’s site representative shall give the contractor
a notice in advance (7 days for indigenous / 15 days for imports / as per contracted terms) in writing of the
date at which the site will be ready for the work and the commencement of supervision. Contractor to mobilize
concerned competent personnel for supervision of Erection & commissioning activities within a period of 7
days of receipt of intimation in this regard by BHEL.
24.0.4
Local Laws and Safety Regulations: The Contractor shall ensure that his staff complies with local laws and
safety regulations as applicable at the work site. Any liability or penalty arising due to violation or non-
compliance thereof shall be to contractor’s account.
24.0.5
Work Completion Certificate: Upon completion of the contracted scope of work, Purchaser or BHEL’s site
representative shall issue a ‘Work Completion Certificate’. Onus of obtaining the same shall be on the
vendor/contractor.
25.0
ERECTION & COMMISSIONING (if applicable as per NIT/SCC)
25.0.1
The Contractor’s Obligations: The Contractor, upon notification and whenever called for by BHEL, shall
provide the services of the competent workmen and Supervisors to undertake:

the installation and erection of the system/equipment or package or product.

to supervise the installation and erection of the system/equipment or package or product.

to commission & performance testing of the system/equipment or package or product supplied to the
satisfaction of the site representative

This shall also be read in conjunction with the scope of work specified elsewhere in the contract.
Vendor/ Contractor shall arrange Material Receipt Certificate (MRC) from the project site, duly signed by Site
Engineer/Owner after receipt & physical verification of the material at site
The number and qualifications of the Contractor’s personnel shall be as required by site conditions prevailing
at the time of execution of E&C portion of the Contract.
25.0.2
The Purchaser’s Obligations: The Purchaser or BHEL’s site representative shall ensure the front availability
for execution of the E&C in line with the notification of readiness of site given to the contractor. However, the
Contractor should ensure that the supply portion of the contract has been completed by the time of this notice,
provided this notice is broadly in line with the supply completion date stipulated in the contract.
25.0.3
Site Storage of Materials:
Vendor/ Contractor or his sub-contractors shall organise safe storage of the materials at site until their actual
delivery to consignee or handing over of the equipment/system in totality. Vendor/ Contractor shall be solely
responsible for all losses, destructions, damages or deterioration to the materials from any cause whatsoever.
25.0.4
Notification of Readiness of the Site: The Purchaser or BHEL’s site representative shall give the Contractor
a notice in advance (7 days for indigenous / 15 days for imports / as per contracted terms) in writing of the
date at which the site will be ready for the work and the commencement of E&C activities. Contractor to
mobilize concerned competent personnel for Erection & commissioning and supervision thereof within a
period of 7 days of receipt of intimation in this regard by BHEL.
25.0.5
Local Laws and Safety Regulations: The Contractor shall ensure that his staff complies with local laws and
safety regulations as applicable at the work site. Any liability or penalty arising due to violation or non-
compliance thereof shall be to Contractor’s account.
25.0.6
Site Register: A site register shall be maintained at work site wherein all works carried out and problems
encountered, if any, will be recorded. This site register will be completed and signed daily by the
representatives of the BHEL / Contractor and also owner where required.
Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the representatives shall be authorised to act on behalf of their
respective parties in all matters concerning the E&C work and the supervision.
Wherever these Supplementary Conditions stipulate that written notice shall be given, the representative shall
be authorised to receive such notice on behalf of the party he represents.
25.0.7
Work Completion Certificate: Upon completion of the contracted scope of work, Purchaser or BHEL’s site
representative shall issue a ‘Work Completion Certificate’. Onus of obtaining the same shall be on the
vendor/contractor.
GCTC-5

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

37
25.0.8
Extra Cost During Erection: If it is shown by the notices in the site register or otherwise proved by the
Purchaser that the Contractor has failed, to perform his obligations in accordance with necessary requirement
of the contract, or has failed to use proper skill, care and diligence in carrying out the said obligations, thereby
causing the cost of erection to be increased, the Purchaser shall be entitled to claim compensation for such
extra cost. The Contractor shall make good any damage to the Product/ Equipment occurring during erection
& commissioning (or its supervision) caused due to negligence by Contractor’s personnel.
26.0
EXTENSION OF TIME FOR COMPLETION (FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES)
26.0.1
If the completion of work as detailed in the scope of work gets delayed beyond the contract/ completion period,
the seller/ contractor shall request for an extension of the contract and BHEL at its discretion may extend the
contract as per procedure prescribed in clause 26.0.3, 26.0.4, and 26.0.5.
26.0.2
Pending finalization of extension of time, payment to vendors for supply/services executed during such
periods will be done only in excess of maximum LD amount as per LD clause for delayed delivery (Clause
10.0). On finalization of extension of time, payments to vendor shall be regularized in line with approved time
extension proposal.
26.0.3
Based on the reviews jointly signed as per Clause 36.2.1, the scope balance at the end of original contract
period less the backlog attributable to the seller/ contractor shall be quantified, and the number of months of
time extension required for completion of the same shall be jointly worked out. Within this period of time
extension, the seller/contractor is bound to complete the portion of backlog attributable to the seller/
contractor. Any further time extension or time extensions at the end of the previous extension shall be worked
out similarly.
26.0.4
However, if any time extension is granted to the seller/contractor to facilitate continuation of work and
completion of contract, due to backlog attributable to the seller/ contractor alone, then it shall be without
prejudice to the rights of BHEL to impose LD in line with Clause 10.0 for the delays attributable to the seller/
contractor, in addition to any other actions BHEL may wish to take at the risk and cost of seller/ contractor.
26.0.5
A joint programme shall be drawn for the balance amount of work to be completed during the period of ‘Time
extension’. Review of the programme and record of shortfall shall be done as per Clause no. 36.2.1.

GCTC-5

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

38
PART-6: DISPUTES AND RESOLUTIONS
27.0
FORCE MAJEURE
27.0.1
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Contract, neither the Seller and nor the Buyer shall be held
responsible for total or partial non-execution of any of the contractual obligations, should the obligation
become unreasonably onerous or impossible due to occurrence of a ‘Force Majeure’ which directly affect the
obligations to be performed by the Buyer or the Seller. Such events include war, military operations of any
nature, blockages, revolutions, insurrections, riots, civil commotions, insurgency, sabotage, acts of public
enemy, fires, explosion, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, floods, earthquake, or acts of God, restrictions by
Govt. authorities over which the Seller or the Buyer has no control. Seller and Buyer shall endeavour to
prevent, overcome or remove the causes of force Majeure.
27.0.2
The party claiming to be affected by Force Majeure shall notify the other party in writing without delay, within
two weeks on the intervention and on the cessation of such circumstance. The notifying party shall specify
the matter constituting Force Majeure, explaining to what extent contractual obligations will thereby be
prevented or delayed and the further period for which it is estimated that such prevention or delay will continue.
Extension of time sought by the Seller along with supporting evidence and so granted by the Buyer for the
supply/ work affected, if any, shall not be construed as waiver in respect of remaining deliveries.
27.0.3
Notwithstanding above provisions, Buyer shall reserve the right to cancel the order/ Contract, wholly or partly,
in order to meet the overall project schedule and make alternative arrangements for completion of deliveries
and other schedules.
If the war like situation has developed in a country where a seller’s works is located in this P.O. or there is
political instability and Indian Embassy located in that country forbids or advises for not having any business
dealing with the sellers located in such zone / region/ country, then BHEL reserves the right to cancel the
order.
27.1
HOLD ON CONTRACT EXECUTION CASES OTHER THAN FORCE MAJEURE
27.1.1
In case of uncertainty regarding lifting of HOLD on contract execution relating to any activity put by
Buyer/BHEL (because of any reason other than Force Majeure) or by end customer (cancellation or hold on
project), the contract/Purchase Order may be short closed by Buyer/BHEL after 3 years from date of
imposition of HOLD without prejudice to any claim of either party with regard to the executed portion of the
contract.
However, all future obligations of the Buyer and Seller with respect to the contract/Purchase Order shall come
to end in case of such short closure.
28.0
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
28.0.1
Except in cases of wilful misconduct, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this contract, in no event,
whether based on contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability or otherwise, shall either party be liable
for incidental, indirect, exemplary, or consequential damages of any nature. In no event shall either party be
liable for loss of profits or loss of revenue under any circumstances. Neither party's liability for any direct
damages resulting from its performance or failure to perform here under shall exceed the total contract price,
provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to any obligation of the Seller to indemnify the Purchaser
with respect to Intellectual Property Rights.
29.0
POWER TO VARY OR OMIT WORK OR TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
29.0.1
No alternations, amendments, omissions, additions, suspensions or variation of the work (hereinafter referred
as “variations”) under the contract shall be made by the contractor except as directed in writing by BHEL. But
BHEL shall have full power, subject to the provision hereinafter contained from time to time during the
execution of the contract by notice in writing to instruct the contractor to make such variation without prejudice
to the contract and the contractor shall carry out such variations and be bound by the same conditions as far
as applicable, as though the said variations occurred in the contract Documents.
29.0.2
If any suggested variations would in the opinion of the contractor, if carried out, prevent him from fulfilling any
of his obligations or guarantee under the contract he shall notify BHEL thereof in writing and BHEL shall
decide forthwith whether or not the same shall be carried out and if BHEL confirms his instruction, the
contractor’s obligations and guarantee shall be modified to such an extent as may be justified.
29.1
SUSPENSION OF DELIVERY/WORK
29.1.1
BHEL reserves the right to suspend and reinstate execution of the whole or any part of the supplies without
invalidating the provision of the contract. Orders for suspension or reinstatement of the supplies/work will be
issued by BHEL to the contractor in writing. The time for completion of the work shall be extended for a period
equal to duration of the suspension.
29.1.2
During the suspension period BHEL shall not pay any compensation, profit or loss, storage charges, interest,
etc.
29.2
FORECLOSURE OF CONTRACT
29.2.1
If at any time after acceptance of the contract, the owner/BHEL shall decide to abandon or reduce the scope
of the work for any reason whatsoever and hence not require the whole or any part of the work to be carried
out, BHEL shall give notice in writing to that effect to contractor and the Contractor shall have no claim to any
payment of compensation or otherwise, whatsoever, on account of any profit or advance which he might have
derived from the execution of the works in full but which he could not derive in consequence of the foreclosure
of the whole or part of the supplies/work.
GCTC-6

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

39
29.3
TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
29.3.1
Purchaser shall have the right to cancel Order/ Contract, wholly or in part, in case they are obliged to do so
on account of any decline, diminution, curtailment or stoppage of their business and in that event, the Seller/
Contractor compensation claim shall be settled mutually.
29.3.2
Purchaser shall have the right to cancel order/ contract at the risk and cost of Seller/ Contractor in case either
the Seller/ Contractor himself or any of his representative or agent is found to have been a previous employee
of the Purchaser immediately before retirement and has within a period of two years of such retirement
accepted the employment of the Seller/ Contractor either as a Seller/ Contractor or as an employee without
having obtained prior permission of Purchaser.
29.3.3
In case of cancellation of main supply order/ contract, all other associated orders/ contracts like mandatory
spares/ recommended spares/ E&C/ supervision of E&C would also get cancelled.
29.4
TERMINATION ON DEATH OF CONTRACTOR
29.4.1
If the bidder/seller is an individual or proprietary concerned, on death of such individual or proprietary
concerned, the contract shall be deemed to have been terminated on date of the death.
29.4.2
In case of partnership firm, if one of the partner dies or any change or re-constitution of the firm takes place,
BHEL shall take an appropriate decision in this regard. Such decision shall be final and binding on the parties.
29.4.3
The legal heir/ estates/representatives of the deceased individual or proprietary concern or partners of a
partnership firm cannot claim compensation or damages etc.
29.5
TERMINATION/ OFFLOADING FOR DELAY IN EXECUTION OF ORDER
29.5.1
The contractor fully understands that time is essence of the contract and timely completion of the work as per
the schedule is of paramount necessity as otherwise it would lead to adversely affecting the schedules of
other works/project with resultant financial and other losses to the purchaser. In view of this, the contractor
unconditionally agrees and binds himself to be liable for all the consequences for non-completion of the work
within the stipulated time.
29.5.2
In case a situation is brought about by the contractor warranting termination/off-loading of the whole or any
part of the work for any reason whatsoever, the Purchaser shall have the liberty and right to
entrust/engage/award the work so terminated/off loaded at the risk and cost of the contractor to any other
agency/contractor by adopting any mode of inviting tenders, in order to ensure completion of the work or at
the quickest possible time.
30.0
TRANSFER, SUB-LETTING/ ASSIGNMENT/ SUB-CONTRACTING
30.0.1
Bidder shall not sublet, transfer or assign order/ contract or any part thereof or interest therein or benefit or
advantage thereof save with the prior consent in writing of Buyer. In the event of bidder sub-letting, transferring
or assigning order/ contract or any part thereof or interest therein or benefit or advantage thereof without such
permission, the Buyer shall be entitled to cancel the Order/ Contract and to purchase the
equipments/system/package from elsewhere at risk and costs of bidder and the bidder shall be liable for any
loss or damage which Buyer may sustain in consequence of or arising out of such risk purchase.
30.0.2
If bidder is an individual or proprietary concern and the individual or the proprietor dies or the partnership is
dissolved or substantially affected, then unless the Buyer is satisfied that legal representative of individual
bidder or proprietor of proprietary concern and surviving partners of partnership firm are capable of carrying
out and completing the order/ contract, the Buyer shall be entitled to cancel the order/ contract as to its
incomplete portion and without being in any way liable to payment of any compensation to estate of bidder
and/ or to surviving partners of bidder’s firm on account of cancellation of the order/ contract.
30.0.3
Decision of Buyer that legal representatives of deceased bidder or surviving partners of the bidder’s firm
cannot carry out and complete the order/ contract shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
30.0.4
Terms and Conditions shall not get affected in case of merger/ amalgamation/ takeover/ re-arrangement etc.
31.0
DEFAULT/ BREACH OF CONTRACT, INSOLVENCY, AND RISK & COST PURCHASE
31.0.1
If Seller/ Contractor

fails to deliver goods or materials or any instalment thereof within the period(s) fixed for such delivery
or

delivers goods or materials not of the contracted quality and failing to adhere to the contract
specifications or

withdraws his offer after the part two bid opening (Price bid opening) or

at any time repudiates or otherwise abandons the contract before expiry of such period or refuses or

is unable to supply goods or materials covered by the Order/ Contract either in whole or in part or
otherwise fails to perform the Order/Contract or

commits any breach of Order/ Contract not herein specifically provided for or

in the event of the death or insanity or if the Seller/ Contractor being an individual or if a firm on a
partnership thereof, shall at any time, be adjudged insolvent or shall have a receiving order for
administration of his estate made against him or shall take any proceeding for composition under any
Insolvency Act for the time being in force or

make any assignment of the Order/ Contract or enter into any arrangement or composition with his
creditors or suspend payment or if the firm is dissolved under the Partnership Act or

if the Seller/ Contractor being a company is wound up voluntarily or by order of a Court or a Receiver,
Liquidator or Manager on behalf of the debenture holders and creditors is appointed or circumstances
GCTC-6

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

40
shall have arisen which entitles the Court of debenture holder and creditors to appoint a receiver,
liquidator or manager,

the purchaser without prejudice to his right to recover any expenses, losses or damages to which the
Purchaser may be put to incur or sustain by reason of Seller/ Contractor's default or breach of Order/ Contract,
Purchaser shall be entitled to cancel the Order/ Contract either in whole or portion thereof without
compensation to Seller/ Contractor and if the Purchaser so desires, may procure upon such terms and in
such manner as deemed appropriate, stores not so delivered or others of similar description where stores
exactly complying with particulars are not, in the opinion of the Purchaser, which shall be final, readily
procurable, at the risk and cost of the Seller/ Contractor and the Seller/ Contractor shall be liable to the
Purchaser for any excess costs provided that the Seller/ Contractor shall continue the performance of the
Order/ Contract to the extent not cancelled under the provisions of this clause.

The Seller/ Contractor shall on no account be entitled to any gain on such repurchases.
Risk & Cost Clause, in line with Conditions of Contract may be invoked in any of the following cases:

i. Contractor/ supplier’s poor progress of the work vis-à-vis execution timeline as stipulated in the
Contract, backlog attributable to contractor/ supplier including unexecuted portion of work/ supply does
not appear to be executable within balance available period considering its performance of execution.
ii. Withdrawal from or abandonment of the work by contractor before completion of the work as per
contract.
iii. Non-completion of work/ Non-supply by the Contractor/ supplier within scheduled completion/delivery
period as per Contract or as extended from time to time, for the reasons attributable to the contractor/
supplier.
iv. Termination of Contract on account of any other reason(s) attributable to Contractor/ Supplier.
v. Assignment, transfer, subletting of Contract without BHEL’s written permission resulting in termination
of Contract or part thereof by BHEL.
Non-compliance to any contractual condition or any other default attributable to Contractor/ Supplier.
31.0.2
Risk and Cost against Balance Work:
Risk & Cost Amount= [(A-B) + (A x H/100)]
Where,
A= Value of Balance scope of Work/ Supply (*) as per rates of new contract
B= Value of Balance scope of Work/ Supply (*) as per rates of old contract being paid to the contractor/
supplier at the time of termination of contract i.e. inclusive of PVC & ORC, if any.
H = Overhead Factor to be taken as 5
In case (A-B) is less than 0 (zero), value of (A-B) shall be taken as 0 (zero).
*(Balance scope of work/ supply)
Difference of Contract Quantities and Executed Quantities as on the date of issue of Letter for
‘Termination of Contract’, shall be taken as balance scope of Work/ Supply for calculating risk & cost amount.

LD against delay in executed work/supply shall be calculated in line with LD clause of the contract for the
delay attributable to contractor/ supplier. For this purpose, contract value shall be taken as Executed Value
of work/supply for the purpose of limiting maximum LD value.
Method for calculation of “LD against delay in executed work/supply” is given below.
i) Let the time period from scheduled date of start of work till termination of contract excluding the period of
Hold (if any) not attributable to contractor/ supplier= T1
ii) Let the value of executed work/supply till the time of termination of contract= X
iii) Let the Total Executable Value of work/supply for which inputs/fronts were made available to contractor/
supplier and were planned for execution till termination of contract = Y
iv) Delay in executed work/supply attributable to contractor/supplier i.e. T2=(1-X/Y)x T1
v) LD shall be calculated in line with LD clause of the Contract for the delay attributable to contractor/ supplier
taking “X” as Contract Value and “T2” as delay attributable to contractor/ supplier.

Note: In case portion of service/ supply is withdrawn, no LD shall be applicable for portion of service/ supply
withdrawn.
31.0.3
Recovery from Supplier
Recoveries from contractor/ supplier on whom risk & cost has been invoked shall be made from the following:
a)
Dues available in the form of Bills payable to contractor/ supplier, SD, BGs against the same contract.
b)
Dues payable to contractor/ supplier against other contracts in the same Region/Unit/ Division of
BHEL.
c)
Dues payable to contractor/ supplier against other contracts in the different Region/Unit/ division of
BHEL
d)
Legal Options for recovery of dues payable by the supplier/ contractor.
32.0
NON WAIVER OF DEFAULTS
32.0.1
If any individual provision of the Contract is invalid the other provisions shall not be affected. The failure of
BHEL to insist upon performance of the Contract, to enforce any of the terms and conditions of this Contract
or to exercise any right or privilege granted to BHEL under this Contract or under law shall not release the
GCTC-6

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

41
seller from any of the warrantees or obligations of the contract and shall not be construed as a waiver thereof
and the same shall continue in full force and effect.

If any individual provision of the Contract is held by a Court or any other Responsible Authority to be unlawful,
invalid, void or unenforceable, that provision shall be deemed to be deleted from the Contract and shall be of
no force or effect and this Contract shall remain in full force and effect as if such provision had not originally
been contained in this Contract and the other provisions shall not be affected. In the event of any such deletion
the Parties shall negotiate in good faith in order to agree to terms of a mutually acceptable and satisfactory
alternative provision in place of the provision so deleted.

No waiver shall be effective unless it is communicated in writing to the other party. A waiver accorded on one
occasion shall not constitute a continuing waiver in respect of such such/similar breach/event in future and
separate waiver shall be necessary for each event/breach.

The failure of BHEL to exercise any contractual right or remedy or to enforce any of the terms and conditions
of this Order/Contract or to exercise any right or privilege granted to BHEL under this Contract or under law
shall not constitute a waiver thereof or constitute a waiver of any right or remedy arising from any other breach
of the Contract nor shall it release the seller from any of the warrantees or obligations of the Order/Contract
and the same shall continue in full force and effect.
33.0
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
33.0.1
i.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Order/ Contract, all disputes concerning questions of the
facts arising under the Order/ Contract, shall be decided by Purchaser, subject to written appeal by the
Seller/ Contractor to the Purchaser, whose decision shall be final
ii.
Any dispute or difference shall be, to the extent possible, settled amicably between the parties hereto,
failing which the disputed issues shall be settled through arbitration and conciliation.
iii. Seller/ Contractor shall continue to perform the order/ contract, pending settlement of dispute(s).
33.1
CONCILIATION
33.1.1
CONCILIATION CLAUSE FOR CONDUCTING CONCILIATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE BHEL
CONCILIATION SCHEME, 2018: The Parties agree that if at any time (whether before, during or after the
arbitral or judicial proceedings), any Disputes (which term shall mean and include any dispute, difference,
question or disagreement arising in connection with construction, meaning, operation, effect, interpretation or
breach of the agreement, contract or the Memorandum of Understanding, penalty deduction, time extension),
which the Parties are unable to settle mutually, arise inter-se the Parties, the same may, be referred by either
party to Conciliation to be conducted through Independent Experts Committee to be appointed by competent
authority of BHEL from the BHEL Panel of Conciliators.
33.1.2
The proceedings of Conciliation shall broadly be governed by Part-III of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act
1996 or any statutory modification thereof and as provided in Procedure (Annexure-12) to this GCC. The
Procedure (Annexure-12) together with its Formats will be treated as if the same is part and parcel hereof
and shall be as effectual as if set out herein in this GCC
33.1.3
NOTES:
1. No serving or a retired employee of BHEL/Administrative Ministry of BHEL shall be included in the BHEL
Panel of Conciliators.
2. Any other person(s) can be appointed as Conciliator(s) who is/are mutually agreeable to both the parties
from outside the BHEL Panel of Conciliators.
33.2
ARBITRATION (WITH SOLE ARBITRATOR)
33.2.1
Except as provided elsewhere in this Contract, in case amicable settlement is not reached between the
Parties, in respect of any dispute or difference; arising out of the formation, breach, termination, penalty
deduction, validity or execution of the Contract; time extension, or, the respective rights and liabilities of the
Parties; or, in relation to interpretation of any provision of the Contract; or, in any manner touching upon the
Contract, then, either Party may, by a notice in writing to the other Party refer such dispute or difference to
the sole arbitrator to be appointed by Head of the BHEL Unit/Region/Division issuing the Contract
33.2.2
The Arbitrator shall pass a reasoned award and the award of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the
Parties.
33.2.3
Subject as aforesaid, the provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 (India) or statutory modifications
or re-enactments thereof and the rules made thereunder and for the time being in force shall apply to the
arbitration proceedings under this clause. The seat of arbitration shall be Sangareddy / Hyderabad,
Telangana. The language of arbitration shall be English and the documents shall be submitted in English.
33.2.4
The cost of arbitration shall initially be borne equally by the Parties subject to the final apportionment of the
cost of the arbitration in the award of the Arbitrator.
33.2.5
Notwithstanding the existence or any dispute or differences and/or reference for the arbitration, the Contractor
shall proceed with and continue without hindrance the performance of its obligations under this Contract with
due diligence and expedition in a professional manner except where the Contract has been terminated by
either Party in terms of this Contract.
33.3
ARBITRATION FOR CONTRACT WITH PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISE (PSE) OR A GOVERNMENT
DEPARTMENT
GCTC-6

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

42
33.3.1
In the event of any dispute or difference relating to the interpretation and application of the provisions of
commercial contract(s) between Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs)/Port Trusts inter se and also
between CPSEs and Government Departments/Organizations (excluding disputes concerning railways,
Income Tax, Customs & Excise Departments), such dispute or difference or difference shall be taken up by
either party for resolution through AMRCD as mentioned in DPE OM no. 4(1)/2013-DPE(GM)/FTS-1835 dated
22.05.2018.
33.4
LAWS GOVERNING THE CONTRACT & JURISDICTION OF COURT
33.4.1
The contract shall in all respects be deemed to be and shall be construed and all payments there under shall
be made in Indian Rupees unless otherwise specified.
33.4.2
This contract shall be construed as per and be governed by the laws in force in India. The Courts of
Sangareddy / Hyderabad, Telangana (or Purchase order issuing agency city) shall have exclusive Jurisdiction
over any matter arising out of or in connection with this contract, including Arbitration Awards.
34.0
INDEMNIFICATION
34.0.1
Seller/ Contractor shall fully indemnify and keep indemnified the Purchaser against all claims of whatsoever
nature arising during the course and out of the execution of this Order/ Contract.
34.0.2
The Seller agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Buyer, its officers, employees, agents,
representatives, successors, assignees or any of the buyer’s customers buying or using the goods or services
specified herein, against any actual or alleged infringement of such intellectual property interests, claims by
third parties in this regard.
Seller and shall pay to the Buyer merely on demand without demur and without requiring the Buyer to furnish
any proof of such claim, such sum as indicated in the demand towards any liabilities, damages, penalties,
injuries, claims, demands, actions, cost and expenses etc. suffered as a result thereof.
34.1
NO PERSONAL LIABILITY
34.1.1
Neither any member of BHEL’s staff nor the Engineer, nor the Engineer’s representative shall be in any way
personally liable for the acts or obligations under the contract or answerable for any default or omission on
the part of BHEL in the observance or performance of any of the acts, matters, or things which are herein
contained.

GCTC-6

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

43
PART-7: OTHER GENERAL TERMS
35.0
FOREIGN SUPPLIERS AND INDIAN AGENTS OF FOREIGN SUPPLIERS (AGENCY AGREEMENT)
35.0.1
For Indian Agents of Foreign Principals:

i. BHEL shall deal directly with foreign vendors, wherever required, for procurement of goods. However, if
the foreign principal desires to avail of the services of an Indian agent, then the foreign principal should
ensure compliance to regulatory guidelines - which require mandatory submission of an Agency
Agreement.
ii. It shall be incumbent on the Indian agent and the foreign principal to adhere to the relevant guidelines of
Government of India, issued from time to time.
iii. The Agency Agreement should specify the precise relationship between the foreign OEM/ foreign principal
and their Indian agent and their mutual interest in the business. All services to be rendered by agent/
associate, whether of general nature or in relation to the particular contract, must be clearly stated by the
foreign supplier/ Indian agent. Any payment, which the agent or associate receives in India or abroad from
the OEM, whether as commission or as a general retainer fee should be brought on record in the
Agreement and be made explicit in order to ensure compliance to laws of the country.
iv. Any agency commission to be paid by BHEL to the Indian agent shall be in Indian currency only.
v. Tax deduction at source is applicable to the agency commission paid to the Indian agent as per the
prevailing rules.
vi. In the absence of any agency agreement, BHEL shall not deal with any Indian agent (authorized
representative/ associate/ consultant, or by whatever name called) and shall deal directly with the foreign
principal only for all correspondence and business purposes.
vii. The "Guidelines for Indian Agents of Foreign Suppliers" enclosed at annexure - 'A' shall apply in all such
cases.
viii. The supply and execution of the Purchase Order (including indigenous supplies/ service) shall be in the
scope of the OEM/ foreign principal. The OEM/ foreign principal should submit their offer inclusive of all
indigenous supplies/ services and evaluation will be based on 'total cost to BHEL'.
ix. In case OEM/ foreign principal recommends placement of order(s) towards indigenous portion of supplies/
services on Indian supplier(s)/ agent on their behalf, the credentials/ capacity/ capability of the Indian
supplier(s) agent to make the supplies/ services shall be checked by BHEL as per the extant guidelines
of Supplier Evaluation, Approval & Review Procedure (SEARP), before opening of price bids. In this
regard, details may be checked as per Annexure-B (copy enclosed). It will be the responsibility of the
OEM/ foreign principal to get acquainted with the evaluation requirements of Indian supplier/ agent as per
SEARP available on www.bhel.com.
35.0.2
The responsibility for successful execution of the contract (including indigenous Supplies/ services) lies with
the OEM/ foreign principal. All bank guarantees to this effect shall be in the scope of the OEM/ foreign principal.
35.0.3
BHEL prefers to deal directly with the manufacturers. In case any Manufacturer insists for submission
of offer from their agent and subsequently placement & execution of PO through their agent:

1.
Agent should submit authorization letter from the manufacturer, clearly indicating name and address of
Manufacturer & agent. The authorization letter should be tender specific and clearly define that the
manufacturer has authorized only the referred agent for participating in the tender. Manufacturer, should
take responsibility for Quality and Guarantee. In case offer of one Manufacturer received from more than
one agent (i.e. Manufacturer authorizing more than one agent), all such offer will be rejected.
2.
Channel Partner / Distributor / dealer / trader of a Manufacturer should also meet criteria defined in NIT/
GCC for the agent.
3.
Manufacturer should necessarily meet PQR defined in NIT for manufacturers in either case (i.e. In case
of Submission of Offer Directly by manufacturer or Participating through agent). Offers of Manufacturers
forwarded by their agent (i.e. Offer are of manufacturer and agent is only forwarding their offer with their
covering letter), shall be treated as direct offer from manufacturer.
35.0.4
The FOB / CIF price quoted will be deemed to be inclusive of Indian Agency commission. Agency commission
if payable shall be converted to Indian Rupees at TT buying rates of exchange ruling on tender opening date
which shall not be subjected to any further exchange rate variation, as disclosed by the bidder in his quoted
FOB / CIF price will be paid in Indian Rupees on receipt & acceptance of Materials or it’s installation at
destination, as the case may be. The lower of the TT buying rate prevailing on the date of technical bid opening
shall be considered for computation of Agency commission.
35.0.5
In a tender either the Indian Agent on behalf of Principal / OEM or the Principal / OEM itself can bid, but both
cannot bid simultaneously for same item / product in the same Tender. If both OEM and its authorized agent
submit their bids separately in that case only the offer of Principal/ OEM can be considered as an exception.
36.0
SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND RATING SYSTEM
36.1
FOR SUPPLY PACKAGES
36.1.1
Seller/ Contractor’s performance will be evaluated as per Supplier Performance Monitoring and Rating System
of BHEL. Please refer BHEL website www.bhel.com for details.
36.2
FOR TURNKEY PACKAGES
GCTC-7

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

44
36.2.1
A detailed plan/ programme for completion of the contractual scope of work as per the time schedule given in
the contract shall be jointly agreed between BHEL and Contractor, before commencement of work. The above
programme shall be supported by month/ Quarter wise deployment of resources viz. Manpower, T&P,
Consumables, etc. Progress will be reviewed periodically (Monthly/ Quarterly) vis a vis this jointly agreed
programme. The Contractor shall submit periodical progress reports monthly/ Quarterly and other
reports/information including manpower, consumables, T&P mobilization etc. as desired by BHEL. These
progress reports shall also form basis for preparing time extension proposal.
36.2.2
Monthly/ Quarterly progress review between BHEL and Contractor shall be based on the agreed
programme as above, availability of inputs/fronts etc., and constraints if any, as per prescribed formats
Manpower, T&P and consumable reports as per prescribed formats as handed over by regions during
execution shall be submitted by contractor every month/ Quarter Release of RA Bills shall be contingent upon
certification by BHEL Site Engineer of the availability of the above prescribed formats duly filled in and signed.
36.2.3
The burden of proof that the causes leading to any shortfall is not due to any reasons attributable to the
contractor is on the contractor himself. The monthly/ Quarterly progress review shall record shortfalls
attributable to (i) Contractor, (ii) Force Majeure Conditions, and (iii) BHEL.
36.2.4
Online performance monitoring system is in place for vendors which will be used for quarterly/ overall
performance review of the vendors.
37.0
DEALING WITH BANNED SUPPLIERS/ CONTRACTORS IN BHEL
37.0.1
In order to protect the commercial interests of BHEL, it becomes necessary to take action against suppliers/
contractors by way of suspension of business dealings, who either fail to perform or are in default without any
reasonable cause, cause loss of business/ money/ reputation, indulge in malpractices, cheating, bribery, fraud
or any other misconduct or formation of cartels so as to influence the bidding process or influence the price
etc. Suspension of Business Dealings could be in the form of “Hold” or “Banning” a supplier/ contractor or a
bidder or an applicant for registration as a registered supplier. For this purpose, the following guidelines shall
be followed across all BHEL units/ divisions/ regions (here in after referred to as Units). These guidelines are
not exhaustive but enunciate broad principles governing action against such suppliers/ contractors.
37.0.2
For
Guidelines
for
suspension
of
business
dealings
with
suppliers/contractors,
refer
http://www.bhel.com/index.php/vender. Bidders should get themselves acquainted with these guidelines.
37.0.3
Offers of the bidders, who are on the hold/banned list, and also the offers of the bidders who engage the
services of the banned firms, shall be rejected and considered for evaluation. The list of banned firms is
available on BHEL website http://www.bhel.com/vender_registration.
38.0
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND/OR LICENCES
38.0.1
If any Patent design, Trade mark, copyright, trade secret or any other intellectual property rights apply to the
delivery or accompanying documentation, Buyer or its bidder shall be entitled to the legal use thereof free of
charge by means of a non-exclusive, assignable, transferrable sub-licensable, worldwide, perpetual license.
All intellectual property rights that arise due to the execution of the delivery by the Seller and by its employees
or third parties involved by the Seller for performance of the Contract belong to Buyer.
The Seller shall be obligated to do everything necessary to obtain or establish the above-mentioned rights.
38.0.2
The Seller guarantees that the delivery does not infringe on any of the intellectual property rights of third parties.
38.0.3
The seller/Contractor shall defend any claim which allege in a suit of proceeding against BHEL that equipment
or any part thereof constitutes an infringement of any patent, if notified promptly in writing and given authority,
information and assistance for the defence and the Contractor shall pay all damage and costs awarded against
BHEL in such suit or proceeding for the patent infringement and the use of equipment or part is prohibited, the
contractor shall, at his own expenses either procure for BHEL the right to continue using the equipment or
replace the same with a non-infringing equipment, or modify it so that it becomes non-infringing, or move the
equipment and refund the Contract Price plus the transportation and installation costs thereof.
38.0.4
The contractor shall indemnify BHEL from and against all claims and proceeding for or on account of
infringement or alleged infringement of any patent rights, design trademark or name or other protected rights
in respect of execution of the contract.
38.1
EXPORT ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
38.1.1
If a delivery by seller includes such technology and/ or supply, which is subject to extant export regulations,
the seller shall obtain due permissions, approvals, licenses, etc., and consequences of not obtaining the same
shall be to the account of seller.
39.0
CONFIDENTIALITY/ NON-DISCLOSURE AND INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS
39.0.1
All drawing and technical documents or technical information (in physical or in electronic form) relating to the
product or its manufacture submitted by one party to the other, prior or subsequent to the formation of contract,
shall remain property of the submitting party.
39.0.2
Drawing, technical documents or other technical information received by one party, shall not without the
consent of the other party, be used for any other purpose than that, for which they were provided. Such
technical information shall not without the consent of the submitting party, otherwise be used or copied,
reproduced, transmitted or communicated to a third party.
39.0.3
The seller shall provide all information pertaining to the bid / contract, in so far as it could be of importance to
the Purchaser. The seller shall not reveal confidential information to its own employees not involved with the
GCTC-7

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

45
tender / contract and its execution or to the third parties, unless the purchaser has agreed to this in writing,
beforehand.
39.0.4
The Seller shall not be entitled to use the Buyer’s name in advertisements and other commercial publications
without prior written permission from Buyer. Upon completion, cancellation or termination of this order, Seller
shall return to the Buyer all such data, designs drawings, specifications and other information, including copies
made by Seller.
39.0.5
All drawings, patterns & tools supplied by BHEL or made at BHEL’s expense are BHEL’s property. These
cannot be used or referred to any other party and must only be used in the execution of BHEL’s orders. These
should be preserved at the bidder’s cost for a period of not less than 5 years. Patterns & tools should be
returned to BHEL within 90 days of issue of the same.
39.0.6
Bidder shall, at all times, undertake to maintain complete confidentiality of all data, information, software,
drawings & documents, etc. belonging to the Buyer and also of systems, procedures, reports, input documents,
manuals, results and any other company documents discussed and/ or finalized during the course of execution
of order/ contract.
39.0.7
In the event of violation of this confidentiality / non-disclosure, BHEL will take legal action as deemed fit.

GCTC-7

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

46
ANNEXURES

SL. NO.
DESCRIPTION
1
Proforma Declaration of Acceptance of BHEL’s Techno-Commercial Terms
2
Deviation Schedule
3
Proforma Declaration of Minimum Local Content
4
Proforma Declaration for Non-Formation of Cartel
5
Proforma Declaration from Bidders from Country Sharing Land Border with India
6
NEFT Application Form
7
Loading Criteria
8
Contract Performance Bank Guarantee – CPBG
9
Bank Guarantee for Performance Security – PBG
10
List of BHEL’s Consortium Banks
11
Integrity Pact
12
Brief Procedure for Conduct of Conciliation Proceedings
13
State-Wise GST Registration Code of BHEL
14
List of Items Identified for 100% Payment (Refer Cl. 6.1.2)
ANX

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

47
ANNEXURE – 1: PROFORMA DECLARATION OF ACCEPTANCE OF BHEL’S TECHNO-
COMMERCIAL TERMS

[To be submitted on Bidder’ Letterhead]

We, ..................... (Bidder’s Name) ........................ hereby declare and confirm that we have read the tender
documents and noted the job content under Enquiry Number ......... (Enquiry Number) ........., issued by Project
Engineering & Systems Division of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited at Ramachandrapuram, Hyderabad and have
acquired full knowledge and information about the nature of the job and other tender clauses.

We confirm that the above information is true and correct, and we will not raise any claim of any nature due to lack of
knowledge of scope of work.

We also confirm that we have not changed/ modified the tender documents as appeared in the website/ as issued by
you and in case of such observance at any stage, it shall be treated as null and void.

We have listed all our deviations from terms & conditions specified in NIT documents in “Deviation Schedule” appended
with this declaration and nowhere else.

We hereby declare our unqualified acceptance to all terms & conditions set out in the NIT Documents, except our
deviations listed under “Deviation Schedule”. In the event of observance of any deviation apart from those listed under
“Deviation Schedule”, whether implicit or explicit, in any part of our offer later, the deviations shall stand null & void.

We understand that non-submission of “Deviation Schedule” with this declaration or leaving “Deviation Schedule” blank
shall automatically imply our unqualified acceptance of all terms & conditions set out in the NIT Documents.

We also understand that BHEL is not under any circumstance obligated to accept any or all our deviations and that
BHEL exclusively reserves the right for rejecting our bid on grounds of deviations mentioned in “Deviation Schedule”.

We confirm to have submitted offer in accordance with tender instructions and as per aforesaid references.

Thanking you,

Yours faithfully,

(Signature, date & seal of authorized

Representative of the bidder

ANX-1
ATTACHED BELOW

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

48
ANNEXURE-2: DEVIATION SCHEDULE

A. COMMERCIAL DEVIATION

SL. NO. VOLUME
PAGE
CLAUSE
COMPLETE DESCRIPTION OF DEVIATION
REMARKS

B. TECHNICAL DEVIATION

SL. NO. VOLUME
PAGE
CLAUSE
COMPLETE DESCRIPTION OF DEVIATION
REMARKS

C. ADDITIONAL TERMS

SL. NO.
ADDITIONAL TERMS
REMARKS

NOTE:

1.
Bidders must mention the NIT Volume, Page, and Clause Number while describing their deviations in Tables
– A and B.

2.
If the bidder wishes to propose any term that is NOT already covered in the NIT Documents, he may write the
same in Table – C.
ANX-2
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION SHEET
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION SHEET

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

49
ANNEXURE-3: PROFORMA DECLARATION OF MINIMUM LOCAL CONTENT

[To be submitted on Bidder’ Letterhead]

"We ___________ (Name of Manufacturer) undertake that we meet the mandatory minimum Local Content
(LC) requirement i.e. ________ (to be filled as notified in the policy) for claiming Purchase Preference linked
with Local Contents under the Govt. policy against tender no. ____________________."

"We _________ the statutory auditor of M/s ________ (name of the bidder) hereby certify that M/s__________
(name of manufacturer) meet the mandatory Local Content requirements of the Goods and/or Services i.e.
_____ (to be filled as notified in the policy) quoted vide offer No.______ dated ______ against BHEL's tender
No._____ by M/s ________ (Name of the bidder).”

Pro-forma for self-certification by Supplier on their letterhead for minimum local content -
for order value less than Rs 10 Crores
Auditor's certification with respect to minimum local content on the letterhead of
Statutory Auditor for order value above Rs 10 Crores
ANX-3

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

50
ANNEXURE – 4: PROFORMA DECLARATION OF NON-FORMATION OF CARTEL

[To be submitted on Bidder’ Letterhead]

I/ We declare that I/we will not enter into any illegal or undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether
formal or informal with other Bidder(s), in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to introduce
cartelization in the bidding process.

For and on behalf of
(Name of the Bidder)
Date...................
Place of Issue...................

ANX-4

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

51
ANNEXURE-5: PROFORMA DECLARATION FROM BIDDERS FROM COUNTRY SHARING LAND
BORDER WITH INDIA

[To be submitted on Bidder’ Letterhead]

I/WE have read the clause regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country which shares
a land border with India; I certify that I/WE am/are not from such a country or, if from such a country, has
been registered with the Competent Authority. I/WE hereby certify that this bidder fulfill(s) all requirements
in this regard and is eligible to be considered.

For and on behalf of
(Name of the Bidder)
Date...................
Place of Issue...................

[Where applicable, evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority shall be attached.]

NOTE: This Order is not applicable to bidders from those countries (even if sharing a land border with India) to which the Gol has extended
lines of credit or in which the Gol is engaged in development projects. Updated lists of countries to which lines of credit have been expended
or in which development projects are undertaken are available on The Ministry of External affairs website (https://www.mea.gov.in).
ANX-5

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

52
ANNEXURE – 6: NEFT APPLICATION FORM

[To be submitted on Bidder’ or Bidders’ Banks’ Letterhead]

Name of the Vendor:

Name of the Bank:

Address of the Bank:

Vendor's A/c no:

Type of A/c:

IFSC Code:

RTSG Code:

Vendor's e-mail address:

Authorized Signatory Seal:

Signature of the Authorized

Confirmation by Banker
Representative of Vendor with date & seal

with office seal


ABOVE DETAILS ARE TO BE SUBMITTED ON COMPANY'S LETTERHEAD.


THE DETAILS MAY EITHER BE ATTESTED BY VENDOR'S BANKERS OR ACCOMPANIED BY A
CANCELLED CHEQUE LEAF WITH IFSC CODE & A/C NO. PRINTED ON IT.


UNDERTAKING TO REPORT IMMEDIATELY ANY CHANGES IN THE ABOVE TO BE SUBMITTED ON
COMPANY'S LETTERHEAD.

ANX-6
ATTACHED BELOW

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

53
ANNEXURE-7: LOADING CRITERIA

No deviations in GCC terms and conditions are generally acceptable, and bids with deviations are liable to
be rejected. However, in exceptional circumstances, BHEL may accept deviations with Loading as given below:

A. PAYMENT TERMS
Payment will be released generally within 60 days after receipt of material/ services and complete
documents as per GCC Clause 6.7 (45 days for vendors qualified and registered as Micro or Small as per
MSMED Act).

Loading will be done for vendors seeking earlier payment w.r.t. above, for the value and the period of
deviation, as stated under:

Interest Rate for loading will be taken as Base rate of SBI on the date of bid opening, (Techno-commercial
bid, in case of 2 part bids) + 6% for the period of relaxation sought by the bidders. If the bid opening day
happens to be non-working day for SBI, then previous bank working day shall be considered.

B. BANK GUARANTEE `
Non submission of Bank Guarantee – No deviation is permitted.

C. LIQUIDATED DAMAGES
If maximum limit asked for is on Undelivered Portion – 10% value of the total quoted ex works price &
freight (excluding GST).

If maximum limit asked is less than 10 % of contract value loading shall be to the extent to which not
agreed by bidder (at offered value).

D. PRICE VARIATION CLAUSE (PVC)
PVC instead of firm price – Maximum ceiling of PVC as demanded by the vendor.

ANX-7
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

54
ANNEXURE-8: PROFORMA OF BANK GUARANTEE (in lieu of SECURITY DEPOSIT)
(CONTRACT PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE – CPBG)

In consideration of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited 1 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Employer' which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns)
incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and having its registered office at _______________________
through its Unit at.......................(name of the Unit) having agreed to exempt ( Name of the Vendor / Contractor
/ Supplier) having its registered office at_________ 2 (hereinafter called the said Contractor which term includes
supplier),
from
demand
under
the
terms
and
conditions
of
the
Contract
reference
No.__________________________ dated __________ 3 valued at Rs............4 ( Rupees ------------------------)4
(hereinafter called the said Contract) of Security Deposit for the due fulfilment by the said contractor of the terms
and conditions contained in the said Contract, on production of a Bank Guarantee for Rs.________________ 5
(Rupees __________________________________________________ only), we ____(indicate the name and
address of the Bank) having its Head Office at ___________(address of the head Office) (hereinafter referred to
as the Bank) at the request of _____________________________ [Contractor(s)] do hereby undertake to pay to
the Employer an amount not exceeding Rs._______________ in the event of any breach by the said Contractor(s)
of any of the terms and conditions contained in the said Contract.

We, _______(indicate the name of the Bank), do hereby undertake to pay the amounts due and payable under this
guarantee without any demur, merely on a demand from the Employer. Any such demand made on the bank, shall
be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank under this guarantee. However, our liability
under this guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs._______________.

We undertake to pay to the Employer any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by
the Contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any Court or Tribunal relating thereto our liability under
this present being absolute and unequivocal.
The payment so made by us under this guarantee shall be a valid discharge of our liability for payment hereunder
and the Contractor(s) shall have no claim against us for making such payment. We, further agree that the guarantee
herein contained shall remain in full force and effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of
the said Contract and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the Employer under or by virtue of
the said Contract have been fully paid and its claim satisfied or discharged or till _______________ 6
office/Department/Division of Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited certifies that the terms and conditions of the said
Contract have been fully and properly carried out by the said contractor(s) and also including the satisfactory
performance of the equipment during guarantee period and accordingly discharges this guarantee. Unless a
demand or claim under this guarantee is made on us in writing on or before the __________________7, we shall
be discharged from all the liability under this guarantee thereafter.

We, ____(indicate the name of the Bank)____ further agree with the Employer that the Employer shall have the
fullest liberty without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary any of the
terms and conditions of the said Contract or to extend time of performance by the said contractor(s) from time to
time or to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable by the Employer against the
said contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said Contract and we
shall not be relieved from our liability by any reason of any such variation or extension being granted to the said
contractor(s) or for any forbearance, act or omission on the part of the Employer or any indulgence by the Employer
to the said contractor(s) or by any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would
but for this provision have effect of so relieving us.

This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).
We,................... BANK lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee during its currency except with the previous
consent of the Employer in writing.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained hereinabove:
a)
The liability of the Bank under this Guarantee shall not exceed.............................. 8
b)
This Guarantee shall be valid up to ..................9
c)
Unless the Bank is served a written claim or demand on or before _____________10 all rights under this
guarantee shall be forfeited and the Bank shall be relieved and discharged from all liabilities under this
guarantee irrespective of whether or not the original bank guarantee is returned to the Bank.
We, ____(indicate the name of the Bank)____ lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee during its currency
except with the previous consent of the Employer in writing.

Date _____________ Day of __________
for_ (indicate the name of the Bank)__
(Signature of Authorised signatory)

* This date to be indicated should not be earlier than 60 days after the date contemplated under the contract.

1 NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE EMPLOER. I.e Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
ANX-8
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION SHEET

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

55
2 NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE VENDOR /CONTRACTOR / SUPPLIER .
3 DETAILS ABOUT THE NOTICE OF AWARD/CONTRACT REFERENCE
4 PROJECT/SUPPLY DETAILS
5 BG AMOUNT IN FIGURES AND WORDS
6 VALIDITY DATE
7 DATE OF EXPIRY OF CLAIM PERIOD
8 BG AMOUNT IN FIGURES AND WORDS.
9 VALIDITY DATE
10 DATE OF EXPIRY OF CLAIM PERIOD

Note:
1.
Units are advised that expiry of claim period may be kept 2/3 months after validity date.

2.
In Case of Bank Guarantees submitted by Foreign Vendors-
a.
From Nationalized/Public Sector / Private Sector/ Foreign Banks (BG issued by Branches
in India) can be accepted subject to the condition that the Bank Guarantee should be enforceable
in the town/city or at nearest branch where the Unit is located i.e. Demand can be presented at
the Branch located in the town/city or at nearest branch where the Unit is located.

b.
From Foreign Banks (wherein Foreign Vendors intend to provide BG from local branch of
the Vendor country’s Bank)

b.1
In such cases, in the Tender Enquiry/ Contract itself, it may be clearly specified that Bank
Guarantee issued by any of the Consortium Banks only will be accepted by BHEL. As such,
Foreign Vendor needs to make necessary arrangements for issuance of Counter- Guarantee by
Foreign Bank in favour of the Indian Bank (BHEL’s Consortium Bank). It is advisable that all
charges for issuance of Bank Guarantee/ counter- Guarantee should be borne by the Foreign
Vendor. The tender stipulation should clearly specify these requirements.
b.2 In case, Foreign Vendors intend to provide BG from Overseas Branch of our Consortium
Bank (e.g. if a BG is to be issued by SBI Frankfurt), the same is acceptable. However, the
procedure at sl.no. b.1 will required to be followed.
b.3
The BG issued may preferably be subject to Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) 758
(as amended from time to time). In case, of Foreign Vendors, the BG Format provided to them
should clearly specify the same.
b.4
The BG should clearly specify that the demand or other document can be presented in electronic
form.

The Bank Guarantee (BG) shall be executed on non-judicial stamp paper and shall be submitted along
with Covering Letter from Bank. The Stamp Duty for BG issued in the State of Telangana is hereunder:

Value of Bank Guarantee
Applicable Rate of Stamp Duty
A
Below INR 2,00,000/-
Rs. 100/-
B
INR 2,00,000/- and above
Rs. 200/-

If BG is issued from any other states the applicable stamp duty in that state or the stamp duty in
Telangana, whichever is higher has to be paid. Also, for each extension of any Bank Guarantee, the
stamp is to be duly paid.

ANX-8

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

56
ANNEXURE-9: BANK GUARANTEE FOR PERFORMANCE SECURITY
Bank Guarantee No:
Date:

To
NAME & ADDRESSES OF THE BENEFICIARY

Dear Sirs,
In consideration of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited 1 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Employer' which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns)
incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and having its registered office at _______________________
through its Unit at.......................(name of the Unit) having awarded to ( Name of the Vendor / Contractor /
Supplier) having its registered office at_________2 hereinafter referred to as the 'Contractor/Supplier', which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns),
a contract Ref No........................dated ........................................3 valued at Rs............4 ( Rupees ----------
--------------)/FC..................(in words...........) for ..............................5 (hereinafter called the 'Contract') and
the Contractor having agreed to provide a Contract Performance Guarantee, equivalent to ......% (.... Percent) of
the said value of the Contract to the Employer for the faithful performance of the Contract,
we, ....................., (hereinafter referred to as the Bank), having registered/Head office at ................ and inter
alia a branch at ............ being the Guarantor under this Guarantee, hereby, irrevocably and unconditionally
undertake to forthwith and immediately pay to the Employer a maximum amount Rs -------------------- ( Rupees --
----------------------) without any demur, immediately on a demand from the Employer, .
Any such demand made on the Bank shall be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the Bank
under this guarantee. However, our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding
Rs. _______________ ________________________.
We undertake to pay to the Employer any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by
the Contractor/ Supplier in any suit or proceeding pending before any Court or Tribunal relating thereto our liability
under this present being absolute and unequivocal.
The payment so made by us under this Guarantee shall be a valid discharge of our liability for payment thereunder
and the contractors/supplier shall have no claim against us for making such payment.
We the ........................bank further agree that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in full force and
effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said Contract and that it shall continue to
be enforceable till all the dues of the Employer under or by virtue of the said Contract have been fully paid and its
claims satisfied or discharged.
We ................. BANK further agree with the Employer that the Employer shall have the fullest liberty without our
consent and without affecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of
the said Contract or to extend time of performance by the said Contractor/Supplier from time to time or to postpone
for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable by the Employer against the said
Contractor/Supplier and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said Agreement and
we shall not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said
Contractor/Supplier or for any forbearance, act or omission on the part of the Employer or any indulgence by the
Employer to the said Contractor/Supplier or by any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating
to sureties would but for this provision have effect of so relieving us.
The Bank also agrees that the Employer at its option shall be entitled to enforce this Guarantee against the Bank
as a principal debtor, in the first instance without proceeding against the Contractor and notwithstanding any
security or other guarantee that the Employer may have in relation to the Contractor's liabilities.
This Guarantee shall remain in force upto and including................................... 6 and shall be extended from
time to time for such period as may be desired by Employer.
This Guarantee shall not be determined or affected by liquidation or winding up, dissolution or change of
constitution or insolvency of the Contractor/Supplier but shall in all respects and for all purposes be binding and
operative until payment of all money payable to the Employer in terms thereof.
Unless a demand or claim under this guarantee is made on us in writing on or before the
.....................................7we shall be discharged from all liabilities under this guarantee thereafter.
We, .................. BANK lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee during its currency except with the previous
consent of the Employer in writing.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained hereinabove:
d)
The liability of the Bank under this Guarantee shall not exceed.............................. 8
e)
This Guarantee shall be valid up to ..................9
ANX-9
KINDLY REFER DEVIATION SHEET

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

57
f)
Unless the Bank is served a written claim or demand on or before _____________10 all rights under this
guarantee shall be forfeited and the Bank shall be relieved and discharged from all liabilities under this
guarantee irrespective of whether or not the original bank guarantee is returned to the Bank.

We, _____________ Bank, have power to issue this Guarantee under law and the undersigned as a duly
authorized person has full powers to sign this Guarantee on behalf of the Bank.
For and on behalf of
(Name of the Bank)
Dated...................
Place of Issue...................
1 NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER I.e Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
2 NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE VENDOR /CONTRACTOR / SUPPLIER.
3 DETAILS ABOUT THE NOTICE OF AWARD/CONTRACT REFERENCE
4 PROJECT/SUPPLY DETAILS
5 BG AMOUNT IN FIGURES AND WORDS
6 VALIDITY DATE
7 DATE OF EXPIRY OF CLAIM PERIOD

8 BG AMOUNT IN FIGURES AND WORDS.
9 VALIDITY DATE
10 DATE OF EXPIRY OF CLAIM PERIOD
Note:
6.
In Case of Bank Guarantees submitted by Foreign Vendors-
a.
From Nationalized/Public Sector / Private Sector/ Foreign Banks (BG issued by Branches in
India) can be accepted subject to the condition that the Bank Guarantee should be enforceable in
the town/city or at nearest branch where the Unit is located i.e. Demand can be presented at the
Branch located in the town/city or at nearest branch where the Unit is located.

b.
From Foreign Banks (wherein Foreign Vendors intend to provide BG from local branch of the
Vendor country’s Bank)

b.1 In such cases, in the Tender Enquiry/ Contract itself, it may be clearly specified that Bank Guarantee
issued by any of the Consortium Banks only will be accepted by BHEL. As such, Foreign Vendor
needs to make necessary arrangements for issuance of Counter- Guarantee by Foreign Bank in
favour of the Indian Bank (BHEL’s Consortium Bank). It is advisable that all charges for issuance of
Bank Guarantee/ counter- Guarantee should be borne by the Foreign Vendor. The tender stipulation
should clearly specify these requirements.
b.2 In case, Foreign Vendors intend to provide BG from Overseas Branch of our Consortium Bank
(e.g. if a BG is to be issued by SBI Frankfurt), the same is acceptable. However, the procedure at
sl.no. b.1 will required to be followed.
b.3 The BG issued may preferably be subject to Uniform Rules for Demand Guarantees (URDG) 758 (as
amended from time to time). In case, of Foreign Vendors, the BG Format provided to them should
clearly specify the same.
b.4 The BG should clearly specify that the demand or other document can be presented in electronic form.
The Bank Guarantee (BG) shall be executed on non-judicial stamp paper and shall be submitted along
with Covering Letter from Bank. The Stamp Duty for BG issued in the State of Telangana is hereunder:

Value of Bank Guarantee
Applicable Rate of Stamp Duty
A
Below INR 2,00,000/-
Rs. 100/-
B
INR 2,00,000/- and above
Rs. 200/-

If BG is issued from any other states the applicable stamp duty in that state or the stamp duty in
Telangana, whichever is higher has to be paid. Also, for each extension of any Bank Guarantee, the
stamp is to be duly paid.
ANX-9

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

58
ANNEXURE-10: LIST OF BHEL’S CONSORTIUM BANKS

(Bank Guarantees issued by BHEL’s Consortium Banks shall only be accepted. These banks are listed below. For
the latest updated list please visit www.bhel.com.)

Nationalised Banks
1.
Allahabad Bank
2.
Andhra Bank
3.
Bank of Baroda
4.
Canara Bank
5.
Corporation Bank
6.
Central Bank
7.
Indian Bank
8.
Indian Oversea Bank
9.
Oriental Bank of Commerce
10. Punjab National Bank
11. Punjab & Sindh Bank
12. State Bank of India
13. Syndicate Bank
14. UCO Bank
15. Union Bank of India
16. United Bank of India
17. Vijaya Bank

Public Sector Bank
18. IDBI

Foreign Banks
19. Citi Bank
20. Deutsche Bank Ag
21. The Hongkong And Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
22. Standard Chartered Bank
23. The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V.
24. J P Morgan

Private Banks
25. Axis Bank
26. The Federal Bank Limited
27. HDFC Bank
28. Kotak Mahindra Bank
29. ICICI Bank
30. IndusInd Bank
31. Yes Bank
ANX-10

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

59
ANNEXURE – 11: INTEGRITY PACT

Between

Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL), a company registered under the Companies Act 1956 and having its registered
office at “BHEL House”, Siri Fort, New Delhi – 110049 (India) hereinafter referred to as “The Principal”, which expression
unless repugnant to the context or meaning hereof shall include its successors or assigns of the ONE PART

And
____________________________________________________________, (description of the party along with
address), hereinafter referred to as “The Bidder/ Contractor” which expression unless repugnant to the context
or meaning hereof shall include its successors or assigns of the OTHER PART

Preamble

The Principal intends to award, under laid-down organizational procedures contract/s for _______________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
_______. The Principal values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules and regulations, and the principles
of economic use of resources, and of fairness and transparency in its relations with its Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s).

In order to achieve these goals, the Principal will appoint Independent External Monitor(s), who will monitor the tender
process and the execution of the contract for compliance with the principles mentioned above.

Section 1 – Commitments of the Principal

1.1 The Principal commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to observe the
following principles -

1.1.1 No employee of the Principal, personally or through family members, will in connection with the tender for, or the
execution of a contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit
which the person is not legally entitled to.

1.1.2 The Principal will, during the tender process treat all Bidder(s) with equity and reason. The Principal will in
particular, before and during the tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will not provide to
any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to
the tender process or the contract execution.

1.1.3 The Principal will exclude from the process all known prejudiced persons.

1.2 If the Principal obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a penal offence under the Indian
Penal Code 1860 and Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 or any other statutory penal enactment, or if there
be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform its Vigilance Office and in addition can initiate
disciplinary actions.

Section 2 – Commitments of the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s)

2.1 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) commit himself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption. He
commits himself to observe the following principles during his participation in the tender process and during
the contract execution.

2.1.1 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, promise or give to the
Principal or to any of the Principal’s employees involved in the tender process or the execution of the contract or to any
third person any material, immaterial or any other benefit which he / she is not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in
exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the tender process or during the execution of the contract.

2.1.2 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any illegal or undisclosed agreement or
understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary
contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to introduce
cartelization in the bidding process.

2.1.3 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not commit any penal offence under the relevant IPC/ PC Act; further the
Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not use improperly, for purposes of competition or personal gain, or pass on to others, any
information or document provided by the Principal as part of the business relationship, regarding plans,
technical proposals and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.

2.1.4 Foreign Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) shall disclose the name and address of agents and representatives in India and
Indian Bidder(s)! Contractor(s) to disclose their foreign principals or associates. The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will, when
presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he has made, and is committed to or intends to make to agents,
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the contract.
ANX-11
ADAGE AUTOMATION PRIVATE LIMITED, L-26B, Phase –II,
Verna Industrial Estate, Verna Goa – 403722
Engineering,Procurement, Manufacturing, Supply of Tail GasAnalysers Spare Parts for IOCL Paradip SRU project.
The scope of bidder shall include Design

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

60
2.2 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be an accessory
to such offences.

2.3 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) shall not approach the Courts while representing the matters to IEMs and will await
their decision in the matter.

Section 3 – Disqualification from tender process & exclusion from future contracts

If the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s), before award or during execution has committed a transgression through a violation of
Section 2 above, or acts in any other manner such as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the Principal is
entitled to disqualify the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) from the tender process or take action as per the separate "Guidelines
on Banning of Business dealings with Suppliers/ Contractors". framed by the Principal.

Section 4 – Compensation for Damages

4.1 If the Principal has disqualified the Bidder from the tender process prior to the award according to Section 3, the
Principal is entitled to demand and recover the damages equivalent Earnest Money Deposit/Bid Security.

4.2 If the Principal has terminated the contract according to Section 3, or if the Principal is entitled to terminate the
contract according to section 3, the Principal shall be entitled to demand and recover from the Contractor liquidated
damages equivalent to 5% of the contract value or the amount equivalent to Security Deposit/Performance
Bank Guarantee, whichever is higher.

Section 5 – Previous Transgression

5.1 The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 3 years with any other company in any
country conforming to the anti-corruption approach or with any other Public Sector Enterprise in India that could justify
his exclusion from the tender process.

5.2 If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the tender process or the
contract, if already awarded, can be terminated for such reason.

Section 6 – Equal treatment of all Bidders/ Contractors/ Sub-contractors

6.1 The Principal will enter into agreements with identical conditions as this one with all Bidders and Contractors. In
case of sub-contracting, the Principal contractor shall be responsible for the adoption of IP by his sub-contractors and
shall continue to remain responsible for any default by his sub-contractors.

6.2 The Principal will disqualify from the tender process all bidders who do not sign this pact or violate its provisions.

Section 7 – Criminal Charges against violating Bidders / Contractors / Sub-contractors

If the Principal obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor, or of an employee or
a representative or an associate of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor which constitutes corruption, or if the Principal
has substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform the Vigilance Office.

Section 8 –Independent External Monitor(s)

8.1 The Principal appoints competent and credible Independent External Monitor for this Pact. The task of the Monitor
is to review independently and objectively, whether and to what extent the parties comply with the obligations under
this agreement.

8.2 The Monitor is not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties and performs his functions neutrally
and independently. He reports to the CMD, BHEL.

8.3 The Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) accepts that the Monitor has the right to access without restriction to all
contract documentation of the Principal including that provided by the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s). The Bidder(s)/
Contractor(s) will grant the monitor, upon his request and demonstration of a valid interest, unrestricted and
unconditional access to his contract documentation. The same is applicable to Sub-contractor(s). The Monitor is under
contractual obligation to treat the information and documents of the Bidder(s)/ Contractor(s) / Sub-contractor(s) with
confidentiality in line with Non-disclosure agreement.

8.4 The Principal will provide to the Monitor sufficient information about all meetings among the parties related to the
contract provided such meetings could have an impact on the contractual relations between the Principal and
the Contractor. The parties offer to the Monitor the option to participate in such meetings.

8.5 The role of IEMs is advisory, would not be legally binding and it is restricted to resolving issues raised by an
intending bidder regarding any aspect of the tender which allegedly restricts competition or bias towards some bidders.
At the same time, it must be understood that IEMs are not consultants to the Management. Their role is independent
in nature and the advice once tendered would not be subject to review at the request of the organization.
ANX-11

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

61

8.6 For ensuring the desired transparency and objectivity in dealing with the complaints arising out of any tendering
process, the matter should be examined by the full panel of IEMs jointly as far as possible, who would look into the
records, conduct an investigation, and submit their joint recommendations to the Management.

8.7 The IEMs would examine all complaints received by them and give their recommendations! views to CMD, BHEL,
at the earliest. They may also send their report directly to the CVO and the Commission, in case of suspicion of serious
irregularities requiring legal! administrative action. IEMs will tender their advice on the complaints within 10 days as far
as possible.

8.8 The CMD, BHEL shall decide the compensation to be paid to the Monitor and its terms and conditions.

8.9 IEM should examine the process integrity, they are not expected to concern themselves with fixing of responsibility
of officers. Complaints alleging mala fide on the part of any officer of the organization should be looked into by the CVO
of the concerned organization.

8.10 If the Monitor has reported to the CMD, BHEL, a substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant Indian Penal
Code! Prevention of Corruption Act, and the CMD, BHEL has not, within reasonable time, taken visible action to proceed
against such offence or reported it to the Vigilance Office, the Monitor may also transmit this information directly to the
Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India.

8.11 The number of Independent External Monitor(s) shall be decided by the CMD, BHEL.

8.12 The word ‘Monitor’ would include both singular and plural.

Section 9 – Pact Duration

9.1 This Pact shall be operative from the date IP is signed by both the parties till the final completion of contract for
successful bidder and for all other bidders 6 months after the contract has been awarded. Issues like warranty/
guarantee etc. should be outside the purview of IEMs.

9.2 If any claim is made / lodged during this time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the lapse
of this pact as specified as above, unless it is discharged/ determined by the CMD, BHEL.

Section 10 – Other Provisions

10.1This agreement is subject to Indian Laws and jurisdiction shall be registered office of the Principal, i.e. New Delhi.

10.2 Changes and supplements as well as termination notices need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not
been made.

10.3 If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this agreement must be signed by all partners or consortium
members.

10.4 Should one or several provisions of this agreement turn out to be invalid, the remainder of this agreement remains
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intentions.

10.5 Only those bidders/ contractors who have entered into this agreement with the Principal would be competent to
participate in the bidding. In other words, entering into this agreement would be a preliminary qualification.

------------------------------------

For & On behalf of the Principal
(Office Seal)

Place----------------------

Date-----------------------

Witness: ____________________

(Name & Address) _____________

-----------------------------------

For & On behalf of the Bidder/ Contractor
(Office Seal)

Witness: _______________________

(Name & Address)________________

ANX-11
Mr. Samaresh Dey
ADAGE AUTOMATION PRIVATE
LIMITED, L-26B, Phase –II, Verna
Industrial Estate, Verna Goa –
403722

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

62
ANNEXURE – 12: BRIEF PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF CONCILIATION PROCEEDINGS

The proceedings of Conciliation shall broadly be governed by Part-lll of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 or any
statutory modification thereof and as provided herein:

1.
The party desirous of resorting to Conciliation shall send an invitation/notice in writing to the other party to conciliate
specifying all points of Disputes with details of the amount claimed. The party concerned shall not raise any new
issue thereafter. Parties shall also not claim any interest on claims/counter- claims from the date of notice invoking
Conciliation till the conclusion of the Conciliation proceedings. If BHEL is to initiate Conciliation, then, the invitation
to Conciliate shall be extended to the concerned Stakeholder in Format 7 hereto. Where the stakeholder is to
initiate the Conciliation, the notice for initiation of Conciliation shall be sent in Format-8 hereto.

2.
The party receiving the invitation/notice for Conciliation shall within 30 days of receipt of the notice of Conciliation
intimate its consent for Conciliation along with its counter-claims, if any. The Conciliation in a matter involving claim
or counter-claim (whichever is higher) up to Rs 5 crores shall be carried out by sole Conciliator nominated by BHEL
while in a matter involving claim or counter-claim (whichever is higher) of more than Rs 5 crores Conciliation shall
be carried out by 3 Conciliators nominated by BHEL. The appointment of Conciliator(s) shall be completed and
communicated by the concerned Department/Group of BHEL Unit/Division/Region/Business Group to the other
party and the Conciliator(s) within 30 days from the date of acceptance of the invitation to conciliate by the
concerned party in the Format-9. The details of the Claim, and counter-claim, if any, shall be intimated to the
Conciliator(s) simultaneously in Format-5.

3.
The Parties shall be represented by only their duly authorized in-house executives/officers and neither Party shall
be represented by a Lawyer.

4.
The first meeting of the IEC shall be convened by the IEC by sending appropriate communication/notice to both
the parties as soon as possible but not later than 30 days from the date of his/their appointment.

5.
The hearings in the Conciliation proceeding shall ordinarily be concluded within two (2) months and, in exceptional
cases where parties have expressed willingness to settle the matter or there exists possibility of settlement in the
matter, the proceedings may be extended by the IEC by a maximum of further 2 months with the consent of the
Panties subject to cogent reasons being recorded in writing.

6.
The IEC shall thereafter formulate recommendations for settlement of the Disputes supported by reasons at the
earliest but in any case within 15 days from the date of conclusion of the last hearing. The recommendations so
formulated along with the reasons shall be furnished by the IEC to both the Parties at the earliest but in any case
within 1 month from the date of conclusion of the last hearing.

7.
Response/modifications/suggestions of the Parties on the recommendations of the IEC are to be submitted to the
IEC within time limit stipulated by the IEC but not more than 15 days from the date of receipt of the
recommendations from the IEC.

8.
In the event, upon consideration, further review of the recommendations is considered necessary, whether by
BHEL or by the other Party, then, the matter can be remitted back to the IEC with request to reconsider the same
in light of the issues projected by either/both the Parties and to submit its recommendations thereon within the
following 15 days from the date of remitting of the case by either of the Parties.

9.
In the event, upon consideration, further review of the recommendations is considered necessary, whether by
BHEL or by the other Party, then, the matter can be remitted back to the IEC with request to reconsider the same
in light of the issues projected by either/both the Parties and to submit its recommendations thereon within the
following 15 days from the date of remitting of the case by either of the Parties.

10. Upon the recommendations by the Parties, with or without modifications, as considered necessary, the IEC shall
be called upon to draw up the Draft Settlement Agreement in terms of the recommendations.

11. When a consensus can be arrived at between the parties only in regard to any one or some of the issues referred
for Conciliation the draft Settlement Agreement shall be accordingly formulated in regard to the said Issue(s), and
the said Settlement Agreement, if signed, by the parties, shall be valid only for the said issues. As regards the
balance issues not settled, the parties may s e e k to resolve them further as per terms and conditions provided in
the contract.

12. In case no settlement can be reached between the parties, the IEC shall by a written declaration, pronounce that
the Conciliation between the parties has failed and is accordingly terminated.

13. Unless the Conciliation proceedings are terminated in terms of para 22 (b), (c) & (d) herein below, the IEC shall
forward his/its recommendations as to possible terms of settlement within one (1) month from the date of last
hearing. The date of first hearing of Conciliation shall be the starting date for calculating the period of 2 months.

14. In case of 3 members IEC, 2 members of IEC present will constitute a valid quorum for IEC and meeting can take
place to proceed in the matter after seeking consent from the member who is not available. If necessary,
ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

63
videoconferencing may be arranged for facilitating participation of the members. However, the IEC
recommendations will be signed by all members. Where there is more than one (1) Conciliator, as a general rule
they shall act jointly. In the event of differences between the Members of IEC, the decision/recommendations of
the majority of the Members of IEC shall prevail and be construed as the recommendation of the IEC.

15. The Draft Settlement Agreement prepared by the IEC in terms of the consensus arrived at during the Conciliation
proceedings between the Parties shall be given by the IEC to both the parties for putting up for approval of their
respective Competent Authority.

16. Before submitting the draft settlement agreement to BHEL’s Competent Authority viz. the Board Level Committee
on Alternative Dispute Resolution (BLCADR) for approval, concurrence of the other party's Competent Authority
to the draft settlement agreement shall be obtained by the other party and informed to BHEL within 15 days of
receipt of the final draft settlement agreement by it. Upon approval by the Competent Authority, the Settlement
Agreement would thereafter be signed by the authorized representatives of both the Parties and authenticated by
the members of the IEC.

17. In case the Draft Settlement Agreement is rejected by the Competent Authority of BHEL or the other Party, the
Conciliation proceedings would stand terminated.

18. A Settlement Agreement shall contain a statement to the effect that each of the person(s) signing thereto (i) is fully
authorized by the respective Party(ies) he/she represents, (ii) has fully understood the contents of the same and
(iii) is signing on the same out of complete freewill and consent, without any pressure, undue influence.

19. The Settlement Agreement shall thereafter have the same legal status and effect as an arbitration award on agreed
terms on the substance of the dispute rendered by an arbitral tribunal passed under section 30 of the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act, 1996.

20. Acceptance of the Draft Settlement Agreement/recommendations of the Conciliator and/or signing of the
Settlement Agreement by BHEL shall however, be subject to withdrawal/closure of any arbitral and/or judicial
proceedings initiated by the concerned Party in regard to such settled issues.

21. Unless otherwise provided for in the agreement, contract or the Memorandum of Understanding, as the case may
be, in the event of likelihood of prolonged absence of the Conciliator or any member of IEC, for any
reason/incapacity, the Competent Authority/Head of Unit/Division/Region/Business Group of BHEL may substitute
the Conciliator or such member at any stage of the proceedings. Upon appointment of the substitute Conciliator(s),
such reconstituted IEC may, with the consent of the Parties, proceed with further Conciliation into the matter either
de-novo or from the stage already reached by the previous IEC before the substitution.

22. The proceedings of Conciliation under this Scheme may be terminated as follows:
a. On the date of signing of the Settlement agreement by the Parties; or,
b. By a written declaration of the IEC, after consultation with the parties, to the effect that further efforts at
conciliation are no longer justified, on the date of the declaration; or,
c. By a written declaration of the Parties addressed to the IEC to the effect that the Conciliation proceedings are
terminated, on the date of the declaration; or,
d. By a written declaration of a Party to the other Party and the IEC, if appointed, to the effect that the Conciliation
proceedings are terminated, on the date of the declaration; or,
e. On rejection of the Draft Settlement Agreement by the Competent Authority of BHEL or the other Party.

23 The Conciliator(s) shall be entitled to following fees and facilities:

Sl. No.
Particulars
Amount
1
Sitting fees
Each Member shall be paid a Lump Sum fee of INR. 75,000/- for the
whole case payable in terms of paragraph No.27 herein below.
2
Towards drafting of
settlement agreement

In cases involving claim and/or counter-claim of up to INR 5
Crores: INR 50,000/- (Sole Conciliator)


In cases involving claim and/or counter-claim of exceeding INR
5 crores but less than INR 10 crores: INR 75,000 (per Conciliator)


In cases involving claim and/or counter-claim of more than INR
10 crores: INR 1,00,000/- (per Conciliator)

Note: The aforesaid fees for the drafting of the Settlement Agreement
shall be paid on the Signing of the Settlement Agreement after
approval of the Competent Authority, or on Rejection of the proposed
Settlement Agreement by the Competent Authority of BHEL.
ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

64
3
Secretarial Expenses
INR 10,000/- (one time) for the whole case for Conciliation by a Sole
Member IEC. Where Conciliation is by multi member Conciliators —
INR 30,000/- (one time) - to be paid to the IEC.
4
Travel and transportation
and stay at outstation
Retired Senior Officials of
other Public Sector
Undertakings (pay Scale
Wise) in BHEL scale wise
equivalent to or more
than E-8 level of BHEL)
As per entitlement of the equivalent officer (pay Sector Undertakings
(pay Scale Wise) in BHEL.
Others
As per the extant entitlement of whole time Functional Directors in
BHEL. Ordinarily, the IEC Member(s) would be entitled to travel by air
Economy Class.
5
Venue for meeting
Unless otherwise agreed in the agreement, contract or the
Memorandum of Understanding, as the case may be, the venue/seat
of proceedings shall be the location of the concerned Unit/Division /
Region / Business Group of BHEL.

Without prejudice to the seat/venue of the Conciliation being at the
location of concerned BHEL Unit / Division / Region / Business Group,
the IEC after consulting the Parties may decide to hold the
proceedings at any other place/venue to facilitate the proceedings.

Unless, Parties agree to conduct Conciliation at BHEL premises, the
venue is to be arranged by either Party alternately.

The parties will bear their own costs including cost of presenting their cases/evidence/witness(es)/expert(s) on their
behalf. The parties agree to rely upon documentary evidence in support of their claims and not to bring any oral
evidence in IEC proceedings.

If any witness(es) or expert(s) is/are, with the consent of the parties, called upon to appear at the instance of the IEC
in connection with the matter, then, the costs towards such witness(es)/expert(s) shall be determined by the IEC with
the consent of the Parties and the cost so determined shall be borne equally by the Parties.

The other expenditures/costs in connection with the Conciliation proceedings as well as the lEC‘s fees and expenses
shall be shared by the Parties equally.

Out of the lump sum fees of INR 75,000/- for Sitting Fees, 50% shall be payable after the first meeting of the IEC and
the remaining 50% of the Sitting Fees shall be payable only after termination of the conciliation proceedings in terms
of para 22 hereinabove.

The travelling, transportation and stay at outstation shall be arranged by concerned Unit as per entitlements as per
Serial No. 4 of the Table at para 23 above, and in case such arrangements are not made by the BHEL Unit, the same
shall be reimbursed to the IEC on actuals limited to their entitlement as per Serial No. 4 of the Table at Para 23 above
against supporting documents. The IEC Member(s) shall submit necessary invoice for claiming the
fees/reimbursements.

The Parties shall keep confidential all matters relating to the conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also
to the settlement agreement, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of its implementation and
enforcement or as required by or under a law or as per directions of a Court/Governmental authority/ regulatory body,
as the case may be.

The Parties shall not rely upon or introduce as evidence in any further arbitral or judicial proceedings, whether or not
such proceedings relate to the Disputes that is the subject of the Conciliation proceedings:
a. Views expressed or suggestions made by the other party in respect of a possible settlement of the Disputes;
b. admissions made by the other party in the course of the Conciliator proceedings;
c. proposals made by the Conciliator;
d. The fact that the other Party had indicated his willingness to accept a proposal for settlement made by the Conciliator.

The Parties shall not present the Conciliator(s) as witness in any Alternative Dispute Resolution or Judicial proceedings
in respect of a Disputes that is/was the subject of that particular Conciliation proceeding.

None of the Conciliators shall act as an arbitrator or as a representative or counsel of a Party in any arbitral or judicial
proceeding in respect of a Disputes that is/was the subject of that particular Conciliation proceeding.

The Parties shall not initiate, during the Conciliation proceedings, any arbitral or judicial proceedings in respect of a
Disputes that is the subject matter of the Conciliation proceedings except that a Party may initiate arbitral or judicial
ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

65
proceedings where, in his opinion, such proceedings are necessary for preserving his rights including for preventing
expiry of period of limitation. Unless terminated as per the provisions of this Scheme, the Conciliation proceedings shall
continue notwithstanding the commencement of the arbitral or judicial proceedings and the arbitral or judicial
proceedings shall be primarily for the purpose of preserving rights including preventing expiry of period of limitation.

The official language of Conciliation proceedings under this Scheme shall be English unless the Parties
agree to some other language.


Format 5 to BHEL Conciliation Scheme, 2018

STATEMENT OF CLAIMSICOUNTER CLAIMS TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE IEC BY BOTH THE PARTIES

1.
Chronology of the Disputes
2.
Brief of the Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA
3.
Brief history of the Disputes:
4.
Issues:
5.
Details of Clam(s)/Counter Claim(s):
6.
Basis/Ground of claim(s)/counter claim(s) (along with relevant clause of contract)

Sl. No.
Description Of Claim(s)/
Counter Claim
Amount (In INR) Or Currency
Applicable In The Contract
Relevant Contract
Clause

Note: The Statement of Claims/ Counter Claims may ideally be restricted to maximum limit of 20 pages. Relevant
documents may be compiled and submitted along with the statement of Claims/Counter Claims. The statement of
Claims/Counter Claims is to be submitted to all IEC members and to the other party by post as well as by email.


Format 7 to BHEL Conciliation Scheme, 2018

FORMAT FOR NOTICE INVOKING CONCILIATION CLAUSE BY BHEL FOR REFERRING THE DISPUTES TO
CONCILIATION THROUGH IEC

To,

M/s (Stakeholder’s name)

Subject: NOTICE FOR INVOCATION OF THE CONCILIATION CLAUSE OF THE CONTRACT BY BHEL

Ref: Contract No/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA & Date ______________

Dear Sir/Madam,

As you are aware, with reference to above referred Contract/MoU/Agreement/LOI/LOA, certain disputes have arisen,
which, in-spite of several rounds of mutual discussions and various correspondences have remained unresolved. The
brief particulars of our claims which arise out of the above- referred Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA are
reproduced hereunder:

Sl. No.
Claim description
Amount involved

As you are aware, there is a provision in the captioned Contract/MoU/Agreement/LOI/ LOA for referring disputes to
conciliation.

In terms of Clause ---------of Procedure i.e., Annexure ------ to the Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA, we hereby seek
your consent to refer the matter to Conciliation by Independent Experts Committee to be appointed by BHEL. You are
invited to provide your consent in writing to proceed with conciliation into the above mentioned disputes within a period
of 30 days from the date of this letter along with details of counter-claims, if any, which you might have with regard to
the subject Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA. Please note that upon receipt of your consent in writing within 30 days
of the date of receipt of this letter by you, BHEL shall appoint suitable person(s) from the BHEL Panel of Conciliators.
This letter is being issued without prejudice to our rights and contentions available under the contract and law.

Thanking you
Yours faithfully

Representative of BHEL
Note: The Format may be suitably modified, as required, based on facts and circumstances of the case.
ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

66

Format-8 to BHEL Conciliation Scheme, 2018

FORMAT FOR NOTICE INVOKING CONCILIATION CLAUSE BY A STAKEHOLDER FOR REFERRING THE
DISPUTES TO CONCILIATION THROUGH IEC

To,

BHEL (Head of the Unit/Division/Region/Business Group)

Subject: NOTICE FOR INVOCATION OF THE CONCILIATION CLAUSE OF THE CONTRACT BY A STAKEHOLDER

Ref: Contract No/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA & Date ______________

Dear Sir/ Madam,

As you are aware, with reference to above referred Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA, certain disputes have arisen,
which, in-spite of several rounds of mutual discussions and various correspondences have remained unresolved. The
brief particulars of our claims which have arisen out of the above- referred Contract/MoU/Agreement/LOI/LOA are
enumerated hereunder:

Sl. No.
Claim description
Amount involved

As you are aware, there is a provision in the captioned Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA for referring inter-se
disputes of the Parties to conciliation.

We wish to refer the above-said disputes to Conciliation as per the said Clause of the captioned Contract/ MoU/
Agreement/ LoI/ LoA. In terms of Clause ---------of Procedure i.e., Annexure ------ to the Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/
LoI/ LoA, we hereby invite BHEL to provide its consent in writing to proceed with conciliation into the above mentioned
disputes within a period of 30 days from the date of this letter along with details of counter-claims, if any, which it might
have with regard to the subject Contract/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA and to appoint suitable person(s) as Conciliator(s)
from the BHEL Panel of Conciliators. This letter is being issued without prejudice to our rights and contentions available
under the contract and law.

Thanking you
Yours faithfully

Representative of the Stakeholder

Note: The Format may be suitably modified, as required, based on facts and circumstances of the case.


Format-9 to BHEL Conciliation Scheme, 2018

FORMAT FOR INTIMATION TO THE STAKEHOLDER ABOUT APPOINTMENT OF CONCILIATOR/ IEC

To,

M/s (Stakeholder’s name)

Subject: INTIMATION BY BHEL TO THE STAKEHOLDER AND CONCILIATOR(S) ABOUT APPOINTMENT OF
CONCILIATOR/IEC

Ref: Contract No/ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA & Date ______________

Sir,

This is with reference to letter dated ------------ regarding reference of the disputes arising in connection with the
subject Contract No./ MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA to conciliation and appointment of Conciliator(s). In pursuance of the
said letter, the said disputes are assigned to conciliation and the following persons are nominated as Conciliator(s) for
conciliating and assisting the Parties to amicably resolve the disputes in terms of the Arbitration & Conciliation Act,
1996 and the Procedure ....... to the subject Contract ....... / MoU/ Agreement/ LoI/ LoA, if possible. Name and contact
details of Conciliator(s):

a) .....

b) .....

c) .....

ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

67
You are requested to submit the Statement of Claims or Counter-Claims (strike off whichever is inapplicable) before
the Conciliator(s) in Format 5 (enclosed herewith) as per the time limit as prescribed by the Conciliator(s).

Yours faithfully,
Representative of BHEL

CC: To Conciliator(s)... for Kind Information please.

Encl: As above.

Note: The Format may be suitably modified, as required, based on facts and circumstances of the case.

ANX-12

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

68
ANNEXURE 13: STATE-WISE GST REGISTRATION CODE OF BHEL

SI. No.
State
Nodal Unit Registered as Supplier
of Goods/Services in GST
GSTIN of Nodal Unit
1
Andhra Pradesh
HPVP
37AAACB4146P7Z8
2
Assam
PSER
18AACB4146P1ZE
3
Bihar
PSER
10AAACB4146P1ZU
4
Chandigarh
PSNR
04AAACB4146P1ZN
5
Chhattisgarh
PSWR
22AAACB4146P1ZP
6
Daman & Diu
EDN
25AAACB4146P1ZJ
7
Delhi
TBG
07AAACB4146P1ZH
8
Gujarat
PSWR
24AAACB4146P1ZL
9
Haryana
PSNR
06A1ACB4146P1ZJ
10
Himachal Pradesh
PSNR
02AAACB4146P1ZR
11
Jharkhand
PSER
20AAACB4146P5ZP
12
Karnataka
EDN
29AAACB4146P1ZB
13
Kerala
PSSR
32AAACB4146P1ZO
14
Maharashtra
PSWR
27AAACB4146P1ZF
15
Madhya Pradesh
BPL
Z3AAACB4146P1ZN
16
Punjab
IVP
03AAACB4146P2ZO
17
Rajasthan
PSNR
08AAACB4146P1ZF
18
Tamil Nadu
TRY
33AAACB4l46P2ZL
19
Telangana
HYD
36AAACB4146P1ZG
20
Tripura
PSER
16AAACB4146P1ZI
21
Uttar Pradesh
PSNR
09AAACB4146P2ZC
22
Uttarakhand
HWR
05AAACB1146P1ZL
23
West Bengal
PSER
19AAACB4146P1ZC
24
Mizoram
PSER
15AAACB4146P1ZK
25
Orissa
PSSR
21AAACB4146P1ZR
26
Arunachal Pradesh
PSER
12AAACB4146P1ZQ

ANX-13

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

69
ANNEXURE – 14: LIST OF ITEMS IDENTIFIED FOR 100% PAYMENT (REFER CL. 6.1.2)

Sl. No.
PMD
Item Description
1
PE.EP.007
DIRECT ON LINE STARTERS
2
PE.EP.008
DIRECT ON LINE STARTERS (EXPLOSION PROOF)
3
PE.EP.009
HT CABLE JOINTING / TERMINATING KITS
4
PE.EP.010
CABLE LUGS & CRIMPING TOOLS
5
PE.EP.015
LIGHTING FIXTURES, LUMINIAIRS (FOR SAFE AREA APPLICATIONS)
6
PE.EP.016
LIGHTING FIXTURES & LUMINIAIRS (EXPLOSION PROOF AREA APPLICATIONS)
7
PE.EP.021
TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEM (LSTB / PAGING / EPABX & PA SYSTEM)
8
PE.EP.027
EARTHING AND LIGHTNING PROTECTION MATERIALS
9
PE.EP.028
FLEXIBLE WIRE FOR LIGHTING
10
PE.EP.032
LOCAL CONTROL STATIONS (SAFE / HAZARDOUS AREA)
11
PE.EP.033
LT POWER CABLES
12
PE.EP.034
CONTROL CABLES
13
PE.EP.035
HT POWER CABLES
14
PE.EP.036
CABLE TRAYS
15
PE.EP.037
JUNCTION BOXES FOR WEATHER PROOF AND EXPLOSION PROOF FOR
LIGHTING AND OTHER APPLICATION
16
PE.EP.038
CABLE GLANDS (WEATHER PROOF/EX.PROOF)
17
PE.EP.043
INSTRUMENT CABLE (SIGNAL/RTD COMPENSATION/TC EXTENSION)
18
PE.EP.047
LIGHTING PANELS HAZARDOUS AREA
19
PE.EP.049
ELECTRIC ACTUATORS
20
PE.EP.057
ILLUMINATION ITEMS PACKAGE
21
PE.EP.058
FIRE PROOF SEALING SYSTEM FOR CABLE INSTALLATIONS
22
PE.EP.059
FRP CABLE TRAYS AND ACCESSORIES
23
PE.EP.060
ELECTRICAL LAB EQUIPMENT
24
PE.EP.064
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM STUDIES SOFTWARE PACKAGE
25
PE.EP.065
WEATHER PROOF LOCAL CONTROL STATIONS CRCA UPTO IP55
26
PE.EP.066
ESE TYPE LIGHTNING ARRESTOR
27
PE.EP.070
GI SUPPORT STRUCTURE FOR MOUNTING OF SMU/PANEL/JBS
28
PE.EP.071
MINERAL INSULATED COPPER CLAD CABLE
29
PE.IN.010
LEVEL TRANSMITTER (GUIDED WAVE RADAR TYPE)
30
PE.IN.011
CLOSED CIRCIUT TV (CCTV)
31
PE.IN.014
OPTICAL FIBRE CABLES & ACCESSORIES
32
PE.IN.015
FLOW ANNUBAR
33
PE.IN.018
FIELD BUS CABLES
34
PE.IN.520
DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE INDICATORS/ GAUGES
35
PE.IN.527
FLOW NOZZLES
36
PE.IN.528
FLOW ORIFICES
37
PE.IN.530
FLOW SWITCHES
38
PE.IN.537
JUNCTION BOXES (WEATHER PROOF)
39
PE.IN.538
JUNCTION BOXES ( EXPLOSION PROOF )
40
PE.IN.540
LEVEL GUAGES ( MAGNETIC TYPE )
41
PE.IN.541
LIQUID LEVEL FLOAT SWITCH
42
PE.IN.542
LIQUID LEVEL GAUGES
43
PE.IN.550
PRESSURE AND DIFFERENTIAL PRESSURE SWITCHES
44
PE.IN.552
PRESSURE GAUGES
45
PE.IN.555
PR. & DIFF. PR. TRANSMITTERS ( ELECTRONIC - SMART )
46
PE.IN.559
INLINE ROTAMETER
47
PE.IN.561
RTD & THERMOCOUPLES WITH THERMOWELLS
48
PE.IN.566
SAFETY RELIEF VALVES
49
PE.IN.574
TEMPERATURE GAUGES WITH THERMOWELL
50
PE.IN.577
THERMOWELLS
51
PE.IN.579
TEMPERATURE TRANSMITTER
ANX-14

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

70
Sl. No.
PMD
Item Description
52
PE.IN.580
INSTRUMENT HOOK UP MATERIAL PACKAGE
53
PE.IN.581
VIBRATION & DISPLACEMENT MONITORING SYSTEM
54
PE.IN.582
C & I LAB EQUIPMENTS
55
PE.IN.583
MCT BLOCKS
56
PE.IN.584
ULTRASONIC FLOW METER
57
PE.IN.586
LEVEL TRANSMITTER (RADAR, NON-CONTACT TYPE)
58
PE.IN.587
SIGNAL ISOLATORS, BARRIERS, FOUNDATION FIELD BUS JUNCTION BOX &
ACCESSORIES
59
PE.IN.588
BYPASS ROTAMETER
60
PE.IN.591
LEVEL TRANSMITTER- ULTRASONIC TYPE
61
PE.IN.593
INSTRUMENT TUBE FITTINGS
62
PE.MP.023
SURGE/PRESSURE VESSELS
63
PE.MP.024
SUMP PUMPS
64
PE.MP.034
THERMAL INSULATION PACKAGE
65
PE.MP.035
BOREWELL PUMP
66
PE.MP.036
SILENCERS
67
PE.MP.040
FLAME ARRESTORS
68
PE.MP.041
GASKETS
69
PE.MP.042
FLANGES
70
PE.MP.044
PIPE HANGERS AND SUPPORTS PACKAGE.
71
PE.MP.045
FLEXI GLASS RINGS
72
PE.MP.046
METALLIC BELLOWS
73
PE.MP.050
DRAIN TANK- FOR HSD/NAPTHA/IFO/GAS CONDENSATE DRAINS
74
PE.MP.054
RUBBER EXPANSION JOINTS
75
PE.MP.059
STEAM TRAPS (THERMODYNAMIC / BALL FLOAT)
76
PE.MP.060
BALL VALVES (CS.SS)
77
PE.MP.072
STRAINERS (Y-TYPE / T-TYPE / BASKET / CONICAL)
78
PE.MP.083
SLUICE GATES
79
PE.MP.084
AIR RELEASE VALVE
80
PE.MP.501
VALVES-GATE/GLOBE/REG.GLOBE/NON-RETURN; MAT: CS/AS/SS;
PR.CL.#150,#300,#800
81
PE.MP.502
VALVES-GATE/GLOBE/REG.GLOBE/NON-RETURN; MAT: CS/AS/SS; PR.CL.#600
82
PE.MP.503
VALVES-GATE/GLOBE/REG.GLOBE/NON-RETURN; MAT: CS/AS/SS; PR.CL.#900
83
PE.MP.504
VALVES-GATE/GLOBE/REG.GLOBE/NON-RETURN; MAT: CS/AS/SS; PR.CL.#1500
84
PE.MP.505
VALVES-GATE/GLOBE/REG.GLOBE/NON-RETURN; MAT: CS/AS/SS; PR.CL.#2500
85
PE.MP.510
BUTTERFLY VALVE ABOVE 14” SIZE
86
PE.MP.511
BUTT WELDED PIPE FITTINGS
87
PE.MP.512
BOLTING MATERIAL
88
PE.MP.517
PRE FABRICATED PIPE SPOOLS
89
PE.MP.519
FIXED ROOF TANK CAPACITY 25 TO 50M3
90
PE.MP.520
FIXED ROOF TANK CAPACITY 50 TO 200M3
91
PE.MP.527
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
92
PE.MP.534
CARBON STEEL PIPES (SEAMLESS) OD UPTO AND INCLUDING 114.3 MM
93
PE.MP.535
WELDED PIPES LARGER THAN 14” (CARBON STEEL AND MILD STEEL)
94
PE.MP.537
STAINLESS STEEL PIPES (WELDED)
95
PE.MP.538
WELDED PIPES UP TO 14” (M.S & G.I)
96
PE.MP.540
ALLOY STEEL PIPES (WELDED)
97
PE.MP.544
CARBON STEEL PIPES (SEAMLESS) OD ABOVE 355.6 MM.
98
PE.MP.549
THERMAL INSULATION – LRB ROCKWOOL MATTRESSES AND ROCKWOOL PRE-
FORMED PIPE SECTIONS
99
PE.MP.550
THERMAL INSULATION - ANCILLARY MATERIAL
100
PE.MP.551
ALUMINIUM SHEETS/COILS FOR THERMAL INSULATION CLADDING
101
PE.MP.552
THERMAL INSULATION - CALCIUM SILICATE
102
PE.MP.553
SELF ACTUATED CONTROL VALVES
103
PE.MP.554
BUTTERFLY VALVE UPTO 14” SIZE
ANX-14

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

71
Sl. No.
PMD
Item Description
104
PE.MP.559
DELUGE VALVES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
105
PE.MP.562
ALARM VALVE FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
106
PE.MP.563
QBD & SPRINKLERS FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
107
PE.MP.566
SPRAY NOZZLES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
108
PE.MP.571
WATER MONITOR / WATER CUM FOAM MONITOR FOR FIRE PROTECTION
SYSTEMS
109
PE.MP.577
FOAM POURER AND GENERATION EQUIPMENTS FOR FIRE PROTECTION
SYSTEMS
110
PE.MP.581
BLADDER TANK FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
111
PE.MP.584
BALANCE PROPORTIONER FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
112
PE.MP.586
POSITIVE MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION (PMI) ANALYSER
113
PE.MP.587
HYDRANT VALVES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
114
PE.MP.588
BRANCH PIPE WITH NOZZLE FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
115
PE.MP.589
FIRE HOSES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
116
PE.MP.590
HOSE CABINETS FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
117
PE.MP.591
PRESSURE DEVICES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
118
PE.MP.592
AIR RELEASE VALVES FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
119
PE.MP.593
HOSE REELS FOR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
120
PE.MP.595
SELF CLEANING STRAINERS
121
PE.MP.596
CHEMICAL LAB EQUIPMENT
122
PE.MP.600
CAST IRON VALVES(GATE/SLUICE AND CHECK)
123
PE.MP.602
PNEUMATIC ON-OFF BALL VALVES
124
PE.MP.603
SOCKET WELDED / SCREWED WELDED PIPE FITTINGS
125
PE.MP.604
WORKSHOP EQUIPMENTS
126
PE.MP.607
SPECIAL TOOLS AND TACKLES
127
PE.MP.610
EPOXY PAINTS INCLUDING PRIMER, HB INTERMEDIATE AND THINNER
128
PE.MP.611
ANCHOR FASTENERS
129
PE.MP.612
COLD INSULATION MATERIALS
130
PE.MP.619
STAINLESS STEEL FASTENERS [FOR MMS OF SOLAR PV PROJECTS]
131
PE.MP.620
MODULE MOUNTING STRUCTURE [MMS FOR SOLAR PV PROJECTS]
132
PE.MP.621
MANUAL SCREENS & MECHANICAL SCREENS FOR STP/WTP
133
PE.MP.631
HDPE PIPES, FITTINGS & FLANGES
134
PE.MP.632
KNIFE GATE VALVES
135
PE.MP.633
DUAL PLATE CHECK VALVES
136
PE.MP.637
SOLENOID VALVES
137
PE.MP.643
STAINLESS STEEL PIPES (SEAMLESS)
138
PE.MP.644
ALLOY STEEL PIPES (SEAMLESS)
139
PE.MP.645
CARBON STEEL PIPES (SEAMLESS) OD ABOVE 114.3 MM UPTO AND INCLUDING
355.6MM

ANX-14

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION (PE&SD)
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD

72

BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
RAMACHANDRAPURAM, HYDERABAD
TELANGANA, INDIA
Document Revision: 1.0
Release Version: A
Release Date: 10-DEC-2020

TECHNICAL DOCUMENTS

ESP-001-
2A Rev . 00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
Std. / Doc. Number
PY56804
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 1 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED,
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.

Revisions:
Refer to record of
revisions
Prepared By:
Checked By :
Approved :
Date :

T.Subrahmanyam
Sujatha Sapavat
Kamal Kumar
29.05.2025

Specification for TAIL GAS ANALYSERS SPARE PARTS
1. SCOPE
This technical specification covers the Design, Engineering, Manufacturing, System integration, Assembly, testing at vendor
works, inspection by purchaser, packing and transportation to site with necessary documentation like data sheets, statutory
approvals, O&M manuals etc., as required.

2. Proven Track Record
The systems being offered as per specification should be operating satisfactorily for at least two (2) years prior to the date of
techno- commercial bid opening in industrial installations.
Vendor shall submit necessary supporting documents / past user’s confirmation supporting to above PTR requirements along
with technical offer.
If offered instruments / equipments are supplied to BHEL PE&SD within last 5 years, above PTR clause is not applicable.

3. INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS
3.1 Bidders are advised to contact BHEL for essential technical queries in writing within one week of issue of Enquiry. In the event of
any conflict between these specifications, data sheets, related standards, codes etc. the vendor shall refer the matter to the
purchaser for clarifications before bid submission and the decision of Purchaser shall be final & binding on Bidder, without any
cost & delivery implications. In the event of conflict, most stringent requirements shall be followed in general.
3.2 Offers with incomplete information will not be considered for evaluation, and are likely to be rejected outright without any
further interaction with the Bidder.
3.3 Any technical features [over & above BHEL enquiry specification requirements] proposed by Bidder will not be given preference
for the purpose of evaluation.
3.4 Bidder shall submit the “Duly filled & Signed copy of Check list” compulsorily along with technical offer without which offer is
liable for rejection without any further interaction with the Bidder

4. Bill of Material & Price Format:
All the items should be identical to previous PO No. T721A00355 dated 27.10.2021 for supply of TAIL GAS AIR DEMAND
ANALYSER for IOCL SRU project.
BHEL Material code: PY9756804009

S. No.
Description
Quantity
Remarks
1.
Optical filter drive belt (PN # 300-1528)
1 No

2.
Optical Filter (PN # 300-0284)
1 No

Attachment:
1. Approved Datasheet/Drawings
2. MOM

QUOTED
QUOTED

ESP-001-
2A Rev . 00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
Std. / Doc. Number
PY56804
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 2 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED .
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.

5. CHECK LIST (To be filled by BIDDER and submitted along with Technical offer is compulsorily)

Vendor shall submit the following documents mandatorily as part of COMPLTE technical offer.

Enquiry No. / Date
:

Name of the Bidder
:

Project Name
:

Item Description
:

S. No
Document
Bidder confirmation
(Yes/No)
Remarks
1
Technical offer complies with the specifications and its associated
annexures, pre-bid clarifications in Toto and there are no technical
deviations.
Signed and stamped copy of this specification along with annexures
enclosed along with technical offer.

2
In case of deviation, vendor to confirm that these are technically not
feasible deviations and same are submitted in BHEL format.

In case technically feasible deviations are proposed by the bidder and
subsequently withdrawn, no commercial implications can be claimed by
the bidder

3
All items are manufactured conforming to latest version of material grade
standard and manufacturing standard mentioned in this specifications

4
Bidder to quote as per BHEL price format only. No other format is
acceptable. Bidder to attach un-priced price bid format by indicating
“QUOTED” against each item and submit with technical offer duly signed &
stamped.

5
For addition/reduction of quantity, unit rate quoted in the present offer
shall be considered during ordering and shall be valid up to execution of
the contract to the extent of + 10% and -30% of order Value.

6
Bidder to agree that Bill of materials / list of equipment furnished in the
offer is only for information; Vendor shall supply all the material to meet
the performance, sizing & technical requirement as per specification & its
Annexures, scope matrix etc.

7
All the equipments / items / etc., supplied by bidder are having valid
statutory approval certificates and same will be produced at any stage of
contract execution to BHEL. The same were eligible to take local statutory
regulatory body approval during commissioning of the system

---------------------------------------------------------
(Bidder’s Signature and stamp with date)
T7I1Y64922 DTD:09-06-2025
ADAGE AUTOMATION PRIVATE LIMITED
The scope of bidder shall include Design, Engineering,Procurement, Manufacturing, Supply of Tail
GasAnalysers Spare Parts for IOCL Paradip SRU project
GAS ANALYSER SPARES
YES
-
N/A
-
YES
-
YES
-
YES
-
YES -
YES -

ESP-001-
2A Rev . 00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
Std. / Doc. Number
PY56804
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 3 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED .
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.

6. DEVIATION FORMAT

Enquiry No.:
Item:
Name of Bidder:
Offer Ref. No.:
Sl. No.
Clause no.
& Spec. no.
Description as per Specification
Deviation taken
Nature of Deviation
Remarks

NOTES:
1.
Technical offer of the bidder will be evaluated only on the basis of Deviation Schedule. Deviation Schedule constitutes this
sheet (with these Notes) duly signed and stamped.
2.
Deviations, if any, shall be clearly brought out only in this format. Deviations mentioned / taken elsewhere or in any other
format will be ignored.
3.
Additional sheets in the same format can be attached by the vendor, if necessary.
4.
Nature of Deviations shall only be of Design / Manufacturing constraints and non-availability of items / components /
makes in market.
5.
No price implications shall be entertained for deviations withdrawn during the technical scrutiny. If any deviations are
accepted by BHEL during technical scrutiny then also there will be no price implication. Hence, in no case there will be
consideration of Price implications.
6.
Reasons for the deviations shall be specified in the Remarks column.
7.
If there are no deviations from the specifications, bidder still has to submit the signed copy of this format by writing “NO
Deviations” on this format.
8.
If the “Deviation Schedule” is not submitted along with the offer, the bidder’s offer is likely to be rejected without any
further interaction with the bidder. Only the accepted deviations in conjunction with the original tender shall constitute the
contract document for the award of job to the bidder

SIGNATURE OF THE BIDDER_________________

NAME__________________________________

DESIGNATION____________________________

COMPANY SEAL

DATE___________________________________

KINDLY REFER ATTACHED DEVIATION SHEET

ESP-001-
2A Rev . 00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
Std. / Doc. Number
PY56804
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 4 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED .
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.

7. MANDATORY SPARES - N.A

8. DOCUMENTATION
8.1
Information to be included with offer
Vendor shall make the offer in detail, with respect to every item of the Purchaser’s specifications. Any offer not conforming to
this shall be summarily rejected.
a) Duly filled & Signed copy of Check list
b) Deviation list, if any (as per “No deviation format” given in this specification). If there are no deviations, bidders shall submit
“Deviation format” by mentioning deviations “Nil”.
c) Unpriced price schedule (To be submitted compulsorily without fail)
d) Bill of materials

8.2
Documentation after P.O. Placement
a) Submission of documents as per “Master documents schedule” (which will be finalized in Kick-off meeting after award of the
contract) within 2 weeks of placement of LOI (for approval by BHEL and / or BHEL’s customer in 4 sets)
b) All vendor documents of supplied items and its sub-items shall be submitted to End user for approval during order execution. Any
comment furnished by End user / BHEL shall be taken care by vendor during ordering execution.
c) Further BHEL will provide comments on vendor submitted document within 25 working days for revision & resubmission.
Vendor shall follow up with BHEL for non-receipt of comments/approvals.
d) Revised drawings / Documents shall be submitted by Bidder in 07 days of receipt of comments / observations from BHEL.
BHEL shall revert within 25 days on receipt of these revised documents / drawings from vendor for approvals.
e) All the approvals required for manufacturing shall be completed with 2months from P.O to meet the P.O delivery schedule.
Accordingly vendor shall ensure the submission of approval category documents (which are required for manufacturing) and
obtain their approvals.
f) Vendor shall obtain final approvals on all technical + quality aspect documents before inspection dates.
g) It is vendor’s responsibility to obtain approvals from BHEL as earliest as possible to meet PO delivery schedules. Accordingly
vendor to plan and execute the supplies in time.

8.3
Documents to be submitted during final shop testing and before equipment dispatch. (Note: submission of these documents
are commercially linked) - all in 5 sets (2 sets to be included with item dispatch and balance to BHEL purchase department).

a) Complete O& M manual.
b) Approved Engg documents, As-Shipped documents, As-Built documents
c) Guarantee and all test certificates for review and acceptance by BHEL and / or BHEL’s Customer
3 sets of CD-ROM – containing O&M manual and Engineering documents (1 set to be included with item dispatch and balance to
BHEL purchase department).

9. MARKING, PACKING AND DESPATCH
9.1
All items shall be marked (stamped/etched) in accordance with the applicable code/standard/specification. In addition, the
item code, if available, shall also be marked.
9.2
For ease of identification, the colorp of painted strip (wherever required) shall be as per the applicable standard.
9.3
Part number/Dispatch link-up of all the equipment’s/items supplied and also their co-relation with system/drawing/approved
BOQ.

ESP-001-
2A Rev . 00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
Std. / Doc. Number
PY56804
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 5 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED .
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.

9.4
Paint or ink for marking shall not contain any harmful metal or metal salts which can cause corrosive attack either ordinarily or
in service. Special items/smaller items shall have attached corrosion resistant tag providing salient features.
9.5
Packing of items shall be in wooden boxes/crates.

9.6
The equipment shall be transported to site by the vendor in fully assembled condition. However, in case some components are
liable to be damaged during transit, the same shall be dismantled and supplied separately, to be reassembled at site the
vendor. Assembly of the item supplied loose at site and repairing of any item damaged during transport shall be in the
vendor’s scope. The vendor shall send each consignment to site with a detailed packing list.
9.7
All the equipment shall be divided into several sections for protection and ease of handling during transportation. The
equipment shall be properly packed for transportation by ship/rail or trailer. The equipment shall be wrapped in polythene
sheets before being placed in crates/cases to prevent damage to the finish. Wooden Crates/cases shall have skid bottom for
handling.
9.8
Special notations such as 'Fragile', 'This side up', 'Center of gravity', 'Weight', 'Owner's particulars', 'PO Nos.' etc. shall be clearly
marked on the package together with other details as per purchaser order.
9.9
The equipment/items may be stored outdoors for long periods before installation. The packing shall be completely suitable for
outdoor storage in areas with heavy rains/high ambient temperature, unless otherwise agreed.
9.10
The following minimum packing procedures shall be followed: -
a) All items shall be dry, clean and free from moisture, dirt and loose foreign material of all kinds.
b) All items shall be protected from rust, corrosion, and mechanical damage during transportation and handling.
c) Each variety and size of item shall be supplied in separate packaging marked with the purchase order no., item code (if
available), and the salient specifications.
d) All electrical, instrumentation etc., shall be properly packed to prevent damage during transport, storage, handling at site.
e) All the items which the Bidders considered liable to be damaged during shipment or storage, shall be packaged for separate
shipment. If instruments are removed from the panel, they and their connection shall be suitably tagged to ensure simple re
installation at the job site. Each instrument shall be sealed in plastic bags containing moisture absorbing dessicants.
f) It shall be bidder’s sole responsibility to protect all the material during period of dispatch, storage and erection against
corrosion, incidental damage due to vermin, sunlight, rain, high temperature, humid atmosphere, rough handling in transit
and including delays in transit.
g) Mandatory Spare parts shall be packaged separately and clearly marked as ‘Mandatory Spares’.
h) Commissioning spares, Tools & tackles to be packed separately & suitably tagged.
9.11
If mandatory spare items are ordered, same shall be sent in pre-decided lots in containers /secure boxes distinctly marked in
Red color with boldly written "S “mark on each face of the containers /secure boxes
9.12
Loose vendor items sent by vendor to sites shall be quantified/numbered/tagged and not merely mentioned as ONE lot of loose
items. A packing list covering items having shelf life are to be intimated to site. Also, shelf life items shall be packed separately in
black color painted box for easy identification at site.
9.13
In case of imported/exported items, seaworthy packing shall be done as per specification no: AA0490004 (latest revision) and
the type of packing applicable for flow orifice is “CQ”. This specification shall be obtained by vendor on request.

10. INSPECTION & TESTING
10.1 BOM verification & Visual check
10.2 Material test certificates/Functional test report issued by manufacturer
11. WARRANTY
As per commercial terms.

ESP-001-
2A Rev.00

PRODUCT STANDARD
PROJECT ENGINEERING & SYSTEMS DIVISION
HYDERABAD
S t d . / D o c . N u m b e r
P Y 5 68 0 4
Rev. No.
00
Sheet 6 of 6
COPYRIGHT AND CONFIDENTIAL
The information on this document is the property of BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED,
It must not be used directly or indirectly in any way detrimental to the interest of the company.
RECORD OF REVISIONS
Rev. No.
Date
Revision Details
Revised By
Approved By
00
29.05.2025
Original issue
----------
Kamal

Minutes of Meet
M/s BHEL, SRU Paradip Refinery & M/s Adage Automation Pvt. Ltd.

M/s BHEL,SRU, Paradip Refinery M/s Adage Automation
P a g e 1 | 2
Customer:
M/s BHEL, SRU, Paradip Refinery
End User
Paradip Refinery, IOCL
PO No.
T721A00355 Date :27-10-2021
ADAGE Control NO
6129
Subject:
Tail Gas Analyzer Commissioning
Analyzer make Ametek
Model:
900
Tag No
88-AT-101
SN #

Range
ADA ±5 ,H2S : 0-3 %,S2O: 0-1 %
Service Date

Days

Members Present: -
M/s BHEL,SRU
M/s Adage Automation
Mr. Bidhan Chandra Mohanty
Mr. Rajasekhar R.
Mr. Jayadeb Prusty

With reference to the above-mentioned PO/Control No. Engineer
from M/s Adage Automation visited the site for commissioning of
ADA Analyzer at SRU (Unit-88) Paradip Refinery, Paradip.
Analyser Activity Details:
c Visiting the site and BHEL store to identify commissioning
related items
c Physically check the panels and identify and record all pending
jobs and inform M/s BHEL.
c At the analyzer optical bench successfully. Install at its
location
c Installed the probe at its location successfully. Laying tubes
for aspirator air, and power and signal cable. Glands and
termination were done both on site.
c Sample line and vent line laid done between analyzer and probe.
Tubing done.
c After assessing all available instrument air, leak check the
sample line and vent line fittings on both sides (probe and
analyzer).
c After 110VAC is available, check all connections as in the
drawing.
c Power On the analyzer, check all system as per the drawing. To
find all cells, probe temperature properly before heating.

Minutes of Meet
M/s BHEL, SRU Paradip Refinery & M/s Adage Automation Pvt. Ltd.

M/s BHEL,SRU, Paradip Refinery M/s Adage Automation
P a g e 2 | 2
c Found Filter wheel belt is loose, not getting optical data. To
resolve this issue try to arrange a local make belt but it is
not running for more than 5-8 hr. So we required a new filter
drive belt (PN # 300-1528)
c One signal is lower than the other. Checked the optical filter
wheel and found that the first position filter was
contaminated. To resolve the issue, I am cleaning and drying
it. I checked again and found the same problem. To fix the
problem, a new optical filter is needed (PN # 300-0284)
c As soon as 415VAC is available, check all internal wiring
according to the drawing. After that, power was found inside
the panel and the light was functioning properly.
c Checked both HVAC (HVAC#1 & HVAC#2) works satisfactorily in
both manual & auto modes.
c HVAC switchover is every 10 hrs. HVAC under observation for 2
days and found working fine and switchover properly.
c Analog output checked at our JB found worked properly. From DCS
side not checked due to it being assigned as loop power. After
modification 4-20mA output checking will be done.

General Pending Points
1. Proper access required to access the sample probe.
2. Proper fixing of panel base with the platform.
3. Proper heating arrangement of bottom part of probe flange.

Spare Required

4. Optical filter drive belt PN # 300-1528
5. Optical filter (Position #1) PN # 300-0284

General recommendations

 Regularly checking & calibration of the analyser.

DOCUMENT CATEGORY
DOCUMENT REVIEW STATUS (BY CLIENT)
(USE “X” MARK)\

APPROVAL
X REVIEW
INFORMATION

GA AND DS OF TAIL GAS ANALYSER

03
12.04.2023
AS SHIPPED
SK
VB
AJK
02
14.07.2022
ISSUED FOR REVIEW
SK
VB
AJK
01
18.04.2022
ISSUED FOR REVIEW
SK
VB
AJK
00
15.03.2022
ISSUED FOR REVIEW
SK
VB
AJK
REV
DATE
DETAILS OF REVISION
PREPARED
CHECKED
APPROVED
CLIENT

INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
PARADIP REFINERY PROJECT
PARADIP ODISHA
CONSULTANT
TECHNIP ENERGIES
PROJECT
525 TPD STANDBY SRU PROJECT
IOCL PARADIP REFINERY, ODISHA, INDIA
ESC
BHEL
Hyderabad

NAME
SIGN
DATE

DRN
GHOUSE

CHD
SUJATHA

DEPT. PE&SD.
CODE 450
APPD
ANAND BABU

The information on this document is the property of
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED, It must
not be used directly or indirectly in any way
detrimental to the interest of the company
TITLE : GA & DS OF TAIL GAS ANALYSER
BHEL / EIL DOC NO.: PY-VA-4-M170-9634-03
REV
CUST. DRG NO. 080557C-26899053-INS-A3201-001
03

SHT NO. 01
NO. OF SHT. 58
26.04.22
26.04.22
26.04.22
SUJATHA
KAMAL
SHANTHA
AS-SHIPPED
01
01

Sl No.
Page No. Document Name / No.
M/s EIL Observation
Adage Response
M/s EIL Observation_
29.04.22
Adage Response_
29.06.22
M/s EIL Observation
08.07.2022
Adage Response
14.07.2022
Adage Response
12.04.2023
1
Header Pressure (Min/Nor/Max/Design):
4.5/ 7.0 / 8.0 /10.5 Kg/cm2g
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
2
All critical drawings shall be vetted by analyser
OEM M/s. Ametek.
OEM documents from M/s. Ametek are
already submitted as a part of our
documentation wherein the schematic for
the ADA analyser is inline with OEM
document submitted , pls refer Probe
sample/vent line, conduit & tube
installations , Page 32 of 42 of the
submitted drawings. Vetting of drawing is
not a part of MR requirement.
EIL Response 29.04.22:- Vendors
contention is not correct. Refer to cl
No. B18(e) of Doc. B366-999-16-51-
SIV-2620/001 attached with PR
where the requirement of vetting by
analyser OEM M/s
Ametek is mentioned. This is inline
with the confirmation given by Adage
as part of TQ. Clip of Adage TQ
confirmation is also enclosed for
ready reference. Adage to resubmit
the drawings vetted from M/s.
Ametek
Noted , Vetted drawings from
M/s. Ametek is attached with
these documents.
Comment not incorporated
by vendor. Inspite of
repeated comments, Vendor
has not submitted the
documents vetted by
analyser OEM M/s Ametek.
Refer comments below on
relevant sheets on which
vetting is required. Vendor
to provide the same.
Noted , Vetted drawings from
M/s. Ametek is attached with
these revised documents.
Refer pg 44 to 58 of this
document.
Point Closed
3
Power cable size shall be 2 Cx 50 mm2. Cable
entry, gland and terminals shall be selected
accordingly.
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
4
Power cable size shall be 3.5 Cx 50 mm2. Cable
entry, gland and terminals shall be selected
accordingly.
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
5
3.8 kg/cm2g
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
6
Single pair cables shall be considered with 1/2"
NPT cable entries
Please note that due to Design restrictions
of the Exd Disconnect Enclosure of Ametek
Analyser single entry is provided for Analog
Signal & single entry for Discrete signal as
per OEM standard.
The same is mentioned & shown in Ametek
EIL Response 29.04.22:- Noted as
Adage is already providing an
additional exd JB for termination of
Pruchasers 1Px1.5mm2 cables for
each signals.
Noted. Point closed
Noted. Point closed
Noted. Point closed
7
Following clause to be mentioned as per Licensor
installation requirement of Probe on line:
Sample Probe shall be fixed vertically upwards(at
90deg orientation)to allow drain out of liquid
Sulphurfrom sample probe
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
8
Insertion inside the pipe shall be minimum 30%
to 50%. Probe length to be calculated
accordingly.
Noted & the same has been considered
accordingly.
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
9
Fluid composition:
H2O : 40.75 mol %
Sulphur vapour S8 : 0.01 mol %
Sulphur liquid S1 : 0.06 mol %
Air Demand : -5 to 5 moles air
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
10
As commented in 60% model review ensure the
accessibility of the probe
Noted & M/s. BHEL to take care.
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
11
5 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
FInalised make shall be provided and the same
shall be as per IOCL MSL.
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
12
8 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
Cabinet will be installed on Technical Structure
and no foundation will be provided. The same will
be bolted.
Noted & updated in revised document.
Required structural supports & bolts in
BHEL/EIL scope
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
13
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
UPS 110 VAC
Noted & incorporated in revised document
EIL Response 29.04.22:- Vendor to
clarify how the auto change over
happens when working AC fails.
In case of failure of working
AC(eg AC1),the fault signal of
this AC will beconnected via
TB3-3, 4 to the standby AC(
AC2) this will automatically
enable the stand byAC power
ON & vice versa.
For details refer electrical
drawing of PDP for 1 TR Panel
AC ( pg 42 of 58 )
Point Closed
Point Closed
14
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
Non UPS 415 VAC 3Phase Supply
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
15
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
IP 66 as per 080557C-088-JSD-1540-002 sec 7.1
(typical comment) for IJB
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
16
10 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
Power cable size shall be 2 Cx 50 mm2. Cable
entry, gland and terminals shall be selected
accordingly.
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
17
HVAC Shall be on One working and another
standby configuration. Clarify how the same is
being ensured.
Noted. One Panel AC will be working and
another will be standby, for this we are
using the Timer in the 415VAC Panel wherin
the timer is set for desired time interval of
operation which in turn is controlled by the
relay contacts wired to this timer , so after
every specific time interval , there will be
cyclic change over of the Panel ACs. The
changeover time is user configurable.(8 hrs
or 24 hrs)
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
18
Power cable size shall be 3.5 Cx 50 mm2. Cable
entry, gland and terminals shall be selected
accordingly.
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
19
13 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
Please provide the readable doc (typical
comment)
Noted & incorporated in revised document
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
20
15 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
(i) Calibration gases are required for one year of
normal operation from date of successful
commissioning.
(ii) Calculation shall be based on a frequency of
one calibration at
weekly interval or as per vendor’s
recommendation, whichever is lower. Calibration
duration shall be considered as 30 minutes for
calculation.
(iii) The calibration gas cylinders shall be supplied
in dual manifold cylinder configuration.
(iv) The calibration gases shall be of high purity
and stability for specified time. Calibration gases
be traceable to NIST/NPL. Preparation of
calibration gases shall be by Gravimetric method.
(v) Valid CCOE certificate must be provided along
with calibration gas cylinders and the certificates
shall be in the name of IOCL. CCOE certificates
for both basic gas and mixture gas must be
provided for calibration & fuel gas cylinders.
(vi) Vendor to note that the delivery of gas
cylinders can be staggered in such a way that the
composition and stability of gases do not
deteriorate. Also calibration cylinders, carrier gas
cylinders to be supplied for one year operation
after SAT
(i) Noted
(ii) Calibration frequency is once every
month and the calibration duration is max 5
min for every calibration.
(iii) The calibration cylinder is supplied with
double stage cylinder pressure regulator.
(iv) Noted & confirmed. These are traceable
to NIST
(v) Noted & confirmed
(vi) Noted & confirmed.
(ii) EIL Response 29.04.22:- Follow
PR i.e. the same shall be based on a
frequency of one calibration at
weekly interval or as per vendor’s
recommendation, whichever is lower.
Calibration duration shall be
considered as 30 minutes
(iii) EIL Comments 29.04.22:- The
calibration gas cylinders shall be
supplied in dual manifold cylinder
configuration.
(i) Point Closed
(ii) Calibration frequency is
once every month and the
calibration duration is max 5
min for every calibration.
(iii) We have considered
additional valves at the outlet
of the cylinder pressure
regulators similar to the dual
valve configuration & hence
additioal manifold is not
reqired & not recommended
for this service.
(iv) Point Closed
(v)Point Closed
(
)
Cl
d
(i) Point Closed
(ii) Vendor's response is not
as per PR requirement.
Vendor to follow PR and i.e.
calibration frequency shall
be based on a frequency of
one calibration at weekly
interval or as per vendor’s
recommendation, whichever
is lower. Calibration duration
shall be considered as 30
minutes.
(iii) Vendor's response is not
as per PR requirement.
Calibration gas cylinders
shall be supplied in dual
manifold cylinder
configuration only as per PR.
(iv) Point Closed
(v)Point Closed
(vi) Point Closed
(i) Point Closed
(ii) Calibration frequency is
once every month and the
calibration duration shall be 30
min for every calibration.Based
on this 2 sets of calibration
cylinders are required , We will
supply 1 set along withy the
system and sencond set will be
supplied on prior intimation
from BHEL before
commissioning since these
cylinder gases have shelf life
of 12 month from date of
manufacturing.
(iii) 3 nos dual manifold will be
supplied for this system before
commissioning , the same will
be utilised by BHEL if required.
(iv) Point Closed
(v)Point Closed
(vi) Point Closed
(i) Point Closed
(ii) Noted & confirmed, revised
calculation sheet is attached
with this document on which
EIL acceptance is already
received by BHEL. Point closed
(iii) Point Closed
(iv) Point Closed
(v)Point Closed
(
)
Cl
d
21
18 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
As per PDS sample connection tube is 8mm ??
Tube connection is 3/8" OD as per Ametek
standard.
Point Closed
Point Closed
Point Closed
COMMENTS RESOLUTION SHEET (CRS)
PROJECT: 525 TPD STANDBY SRU PROJECT IOCL PARADIP REFINERY, ODISHA, INDIA
CUSTOMER: M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED PARADIP REFINERY PROJECT, PARADIP, ODISHA
CONSULTANT : M/S TECHNIP ENERGIES
CLIENT: M/S BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LIMITED
ESC: M/S ENGINEERS INDIA LIMITED
11 OF 42
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
080557C-26899053-
INS-A3201-001 _Rev
0
Subject : CRS_080557C-26899053-INS-A3201-001 _Rev 1
4 OF 42
9 OF 42
Page 1 of 1

//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
AIR DEMAND ANALYSER
TAG : 088-AT-0101
MAKE : AMETEK, MODEL : 900CE
H2S : 0-3mol%
SO2 : 0-1mol%
AIR DEMAND : +/- 5%
FIELD
CABINET
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
TL
ANALYSER HAZARDOUS RATING :
ZONE-1, ATEX II 2G Exd e px IIB, T3, Gb
NOTE-1
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
//
550
200

AC1 TAG
PLATE
AC2 TAG
PLATE
AC1 TAG
PLATE
AC2 TAG
PLATE
ANTI VIBRATION
PAD
AC1 PDP
PDP-32
AC2 PDP
PDP-33

A
OPERATING AREA CLEARANCE

LAG TIME=VOLUME /FLOWRATE
Total Volume Sample Tube
V
=
P r2L
(i.e. Area(A=Pr2) X Length)
Where,
P
=
3.14
Radius of Sample Tube
r
=
4.050
mm
Area of Cross Section
A
=
3.14
x
4.050
x
4.050
A
=
51.50385
mm2
Area of Cross Section
A
=
cm2
Length of Sample Tube
L
=
cm
V
=
0.515
x
cm3
Total Volume Sample Tube
V
=
cm3
V
=
0.26
Ltrs
Volume of the SHS Components
V
=
0.200
Ltrs
V
=
0.4575
Ltrs
Time = Volume / Fast loop Flow rate
=
0.46
/
5.00
Ltrs/LPM
=
0.09150385
Min.
Time = Volume / Flow
=
5
Sec.
=
5
Client
End User
3(As Shipped)
18.07.2022
VB
AJK
SYSTEM
2
14.07.2022
VB
AJK
PO
1
18.03.2022
VB
AJK
DOC. NO.
0
14.03.2022
VB
AJK
DETAIL
REV
DATE
PREPARED BY
APPROVED BY
CHECKED BY
CONTROL NO.: HJ21/6129
SHEET 14
VB
: T721A00355 dtd:27.10.2021
VB
PY-VA-4-M170-9643-03
VB
: Lag Time Calculation
: M/s. Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. Hyderabad
: M/s.IOCL Paradip
VB
: Air Demand Analyser System-SRU
TOTAL LAG TIME
Sec.
500
500
257.52
LAG TIME CALCULATIONS FOR TAG NO: 088-AT-0101
for Air Demand Analyser System
0.515

SYSTEM : Air Demand Analyser System for SRU
DOC No : PY-VA-4-M170-9643-03
END USER : IOCL PARADIP
DETAILS : CALIBARTION GAS CALCULATION
CUSTOMER : BHEL HYDERABAD
CONTROL NO : HJ21/6129
'=
10 Litres
'=
130 Kg/cm2
'=
5 LPM
Total Flow

'=
5 LPM
0.7 Kg/cm2
i.e. 11.4 psig
Analyser Calibration Time (Span & Zero as applicable)
'=
30 Minutes Max.
'=
30
X
5
Ltrs.

'=
150 Ltrs.

where,
P1 = Inlet pressure of the gas (Inside Cylinder)
'=
130 Kg/cm2
P2 = Outlet pressure required
'=
0.7 Kg/cm2
V1 = Volume of cylinder
'=
10 Litres
V2 = Volume of gas available at 0.8 Kg/cm2
V2 '=
P1 V1 / P2
'=
1857.14 Ltrs.
Possible number of Calibration
'=
Total Cylinder Vol
/
Consumption for 1 calibration
'=
1857 / 150 Nos
'=
12
Nos
No. of calibrations required for 1 year (12 months)
'=
4
VB
AJK
3
VB
AJK
2
14.07.2022
VB
AJK
1
18.04.2022
VB
AJK
REV
REVIEWED
APPROVED
This document is the property of Adage and not to be copied or reproduced or exhibited to third parties without the written permission of Adage Automation Pvt. Ltd.
Cylinder capacity
Cylinder Pressure
VB
VB
DESCRIPTION
PREPARED
Considering 1 calibration per week for 30 minutes
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
Volume of gas available at 130 Kg/cm2 from Cylinder
P1 V1 = P2 V2
(assuming gas follow ideal
gas eqn.)
Hence total volume available of gas at 0.8 kg/cm2 , V2
Analyser Requirement
Flow in LPM(max)
Outlet Pressure from regulator
VB
DATE
14.07.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
SHEET NO: 15
06.03.2023
As Built
VB
REMARKS:
Based on above calculations , total 4 nos of cylinders are required for a period of 1 year. We further confirm that, refilling
of cylinders shall be done by ADAGE for a period of 1 year operation after successful SAT/comissioing.
48 Nos
CALIBRATION GAS CONSUMPTION CALCULATION
ADA 900 ANALYSER
Hence Consumption of gas for one calibration in Ltrs. (Span+Zero)
Per Cylinder

PO No. : T721A00356 dt: 27.10.2021
MANDATARY SPARES FOR ADA900 ANALYSER
Document No.: MS-01/6130, Rev :2DT: 18.07.2022 (As shipped)
S.No. as per
Customer spec
Part Description as per Contract
Quantity required as
per Contract
Description of Spare item offered
Qty. of spare items
offered (No's)
Remarks
Make/ Model
Ref Dwg.
/Doc. No:
3
Electronics
1 no.
Micro Interface Board
1 no.
Ametek, 28620178
Display units
1 no.
Display unit
1 no.
Ametek,28620270
Power supplies
1 no.
24V DC Power Supply
1 no.
Ametek,28620289
Fuses
1 no.
FUSE 125mA, 0.2A,32mA
1 set
Ametek,28620295
Sensors,
Detectors
Sensing elements,
1 no.
RTD PT100 9XX 8-32 THREAD
1 no.
Ametek,28620094
Repair kit
1 no.
ASR Probe Repair Kit
1 no.
Ametek,28620095
3.5
Magnesium Lamp
2 nos
Ametek,28620092
Cadmium lamp
2 nos
Ametek,28620091
Cell window
2 nos
Cell window
2 nos
Ametek,28620093
Window gasket
10 nos.
Window gasket (0 RING)
10 nos.
Ametek,28620081
Air regulator
1 no.
Air regulator
1 no.
Ametek,28620285
Kit-o-ring
2 nos
Kit-o-ring
2 nos
Ametek,28620237
Fuses
5 set
Set of Fuses (4A, 63 mA,1.6A,2A)
5 set
Ametek,28620294
Relay
1 no.
Relay
1 no.
Ametek,28620286
Display Board
1 no.
PW B Display I/O Expansion
1 no.
Ametek,28620287
Processor Board
2 nos
Processor Board
2 nos
Ametek,28620215
Other cards
2 nos
Controller Board
2 nos
Ametek,28620288
3.9
Flow switch
1 no.
Flowmeter Gas 2- 18 Scfh Ss With Needle Valve & Viton O-Rings
1 no.
Ametek,28620291
Vaporization system if required, which includes
vaporizer, thermostat, electrical tracing cable and
heater etc.
Cooling system if required, which includes one
cooler, flow
conditioning system etc
Probe Tube
Probe heater & Temp. sensors
Y strainer
Ball Valve
Needle Valve
Gate valve
Sample/ Air Filter
Pressure Regulator
Valve Solenoid ModelL 6011-2/2WAY
120V/60HZ/4W NC
1 no.
Ametek,28620293
Valve Solenoid Model 331-3/2WAY
120V/60HZ/5W C/W
1 no.
Ametek,28620268
As Per Mandatary Spares clause no 3: General philosophy for each type of Analysers shall be :10% or minimum of one of each type
1 no.
Specific Spares Philosphy Prived for analyzer (As per clause no 3.5 of Mandatary Spares List)
Cadmium lamp
2 nos
Photomultiplier Tube LG PMT Low Gain <1500alm
Ametek,28620290
1 no.
Spares for Sample Handling System as per Clause no 3.9
1 no.
ASR Probe 900
3" 300#RF , probe length 550mm
1 no.
Ametek,28620292
Shavo,18728019
Air Filter Regulator, 1/4"
1 no.
2, 3 way air operated valve
1 no.

753$1(/$,5&21',7,21(5

3DJH_

$&'$7$6+((7

$SSOLFDWLRQ
&DELQHW$LU&RQGLWLRQLQJ

0D[$PELHQW
&ZLWKRXWWULSSLQJ

&DELQHW'HVLJQ&RQGLWLRQ
/HVVWKDQ

,QGLYLGXDO(OHFWULFDOFRPSRQHQW3(62&HUWLILHG

3RZHUVXSSO\
93K+]

5HIULJHUDWLRQ&DSDFLW\
75

&RPSUHVVRU
+HUPHWLFDOO\VHDOHG5HFLSURFDWLQJW\SH
ZLWK)ODPHSURRI-XQFWLRQ%R[

0DNH(0(5621

0RGHO.&0&$/(+

3RZHU&RQVXPSWLRQZDWWV

([G7HUPLQDO%R[3(62&HUWLILHG0DNH6K\DP6ZLWFK*HDU

0RGHO663/$&

&RQGHQVHU)DQ
$;,$/7<3(

0$.(08/7,:,1*

$LU)ORZ&)0#PP6WDWLF

0RGHO3$*$6+5

)DQ02&$QWLVWDWLF*ODVV5HLQIRUFHG3RO\DPLGH

&RQGHQVHU0RWRU0DNH/+3

3RZHU&RQVXPSWLRQ.:

&RQGHQVHU&RLO
$,5&22/('),178%(7<3(&21'(1625&2,/

02&$OXPLQLXP%OXH)LQVRQ0HFKDQLFDOO\([SDQGHG&RSSHU7XEHV
ZLWK&DVLQJRI*,PP7KLFNSDLQWHGZLWK&RUURVLRQUHVLVWDQW
FRDWLQJ

$QWLFRUURVLRQFRDWLQJ8/75$&255$&;

&ODVVLILFDWLRQ
*DV*URXS,, =RQH7HPS&ODVV7

0RWRU&HUWLILHGIRU*$6JURXS,,
$'$*(0RGHO12

3DJH_

(YDSRUDWRU)DQ

([3URRI6LQJOH,QOHW3OXJ)DQZLWK'LUHFW'ULYHQPRWRU

0$.(5RVHQEHUJ

$LU)ORZ&)0#PP6WDWLFSUHVVXUH

0RGHO1R/5+)

(YDSRUDWRU&RLO

',5(&7(;3$16,21),178%(7<3((9$325$725&2,/

02&$OXPLQLXP%OXH)LQVRQ0HFKDQLFDOO\([SDQGHG&RSSHU7XEHVZLWK
&DVLQJRI66PP7KLFNSDLQWHGZLWK&RUURVLRQUHVLVWDQWFRDWLQJ

$QWLFRUURVLRQFRDWLQJ8/75$&255$&;

6\VWHP&RQWUROV

7KHUPRVWDWLF7HPSHUDWXUHFRQWURO

2YHUORDG7ULS

/3&RQWURO

7RWDO3RZHU
&RQVXPSWLRQ

.:

5HIULJHUDWLRQ*DV

5HIULJHUDQW

5D

4XDQWLW\DSSUR[

NJV

6XFWLRQ3UHVVXUH

SVLJ SVLJ

'LVFKDUJH3UHVVXUH

SVLJ SVLJ

0LQ6HW6XFWLRQ3UHVVXUH

SVLJ

$LUILOWHU

%R[W\SH$LU3UHILOWHU)LOWHU

0DNH$LU7HFK

02&OD\HUVRI+'3(ZLWK1RQZRYHQ3RO\HVWHUZLWK$OXPLQLXP)UDPH

6,=(PP+[PP/[PP'

)LOWHUHIILFLHQF\IRUPLFURQV

%ORZHU0RWRU0DNH/+3
4W\12

0RWRU&HUWLILHGIRU*$6JURXS,,

3RZHU&RQVXPSWLRQ.:
$'$*(0RGHO12

3DJH_

'DWDVKHHW&RQWG

8QLWSK\VLFDOFKDUDFWHULVWLFV

/HQJWK

00

%UHDGWK

00

+HLJKW

00

:HLJKWDSSUR[

.JV

6WUXFWXUH

6NLGRI66

$&VLGH3DQHOVDUHRIPPWKLFN66VKHHWV 6XSSRUWLQJVHFWLRQVRIPP
WKLFN66VKHHW

6KHDULQJSXQFKLQJDQGEHQGLQJE\&1&PDFKLQH

7RWDO(YDSRUDWLRQ6HFWLRQLV,QVXODWHGZLWK)5&KHPLFDOO\

&URVVOLQNHG3RO\HWK\OHQHLQVXODWLRQRIPPWKLFNZLWK,QQHU$OXPLQLXP)RLO

$'$*(0RGHO12

LJ
()
d«
"-0
...,
c:
II)
(/)
c:
0
\J
c
2...,
'c
!:
...,
::J
0
:5.~
'tJ
II)...,
t:
El.
II)
Q
.~
.S
II)
l.
II)
0
.c
'tJ
II)
.S
0...,
c
0
\J
2
0
"-0
II)
(/)
0
II)
@
"-()
c
0
:;:;
.8
:2
Q
)(
II)
0
<':
Lei
()
d«
"-0
~l.
II)
Q0l.
Q
.~
...,
c
II)
E
::J
(J
0'o
.~
i:':
2
4
5
6
7
8
9
3
FOUNDATION
DRAWING
A
~-----------------------------------4900----------------------------------~1
OPERATING AREA CLEARANCE
2900
B
B
DETAIL-A
CANOPY
t
L.[')
'¢
~
75
r----
ANALYSER
MODEL : 900
t
MAKE : AMETEK
0
L __________
__J
0
L.[')
~=
CX)
.,-
('\J
t
t
t
0
,¢
c=
0
016TYP.
--75
C
----
C
~
Doc No.
PY-VA-4-M170-9634-03
~
DESCRIPTION
FOUNDATIONDRAWING
F
~
F~-,----~----------------~--~----~----~------~--~=_ .~~~~--------------------------~------_L ------------------------------~
it
Q
(J
G::
Q
~
()
d«
I
\
/'
'''"'
.>TOP
VIEW~_
D
f
160
CABINET
000
E
NOTE:
1) All dimensions are in mm unless otherwise specified.
2) Approx Total weight of system (cabinet with NC &
3) Cabinet will be installed on Technical structure and no
foundation will be provided. The same will be bolted.
4) Required structural supports & bolts will be in
BHEUEIL
scope.
SECTIONAL
VIEW
Control No.
HJ21/6129
~
SOLUTION
PARTNER ANALYTICAL
CLIENT
BHARATHEAVYElECTRICAlS LlMITED,HYDERABAD
I':I'JIj USI':~
loel
P/II;;/\DIP (ORI:?3i\)
SK
VB
AJK
CONSULTANT TECHNIP ENERGIES
SK
VB
AJK
PO No
T721A00355,
DATED:- 27.10.2021
PRPD BY CHKD BY APPD BY
PROJECT
TAil GAS AIR DEMANDANALYSERFOR SRU
2
3
4
REV.
DATE
DESCRIPTION
5
6
7
8
9
A
o
E

~
::Jo.c:~'f
'o
2
:':::
E
B
Q)
Q
.~
c.~
Q)
.c:
O~c
'0~co
II
2
3
4
5
6
7
~c
~ A
co
II
c
~
'c
"
INTERMEDIATE
JUNCTION
BOX
(IJB)
(AT FIELD
CABINET)
AREA
CLASSIFICATION:
Exd
ZONEt
lIA/lIB,
T3
~
Doc
No.
PY-VA-4-M170-9634-03
~
DESCRIPTION
INTERMEDIATE
JUNCTION
BOX
F
~ F~~----~--------------~---.----~----~-----.~~~~~== ,-------------------------~------~--------------------------------------~
Q:
~--+-
-I-
+-__-+
-I-
i---=C~LI=-EN:_:__T
--=---+:-::-BH::-:-AR---:AT:-:-=-:-HE=AVY::----;-:E::;:-LE:::-:CT::-:-R;-~CA_L_S
_Ll_MI_TE_:D,_H'r_'DE_R_AB_AD-I
ADAG E AUTO MATI0 N
PVT.
LTD.
~
1---1-
--+-
+-__---+
--+-__
-----iI-E_ND__ US_ER
__
+-IOr._-,L_P_AR_A_DI_P
_c_( O_RI_SS_A)c___
-I
L - 2 6 B,
PHASE
II,
Vern a
ind LI stri
a I
a reo,
~
1
18.03.2022
ISSUED
FOR
INFORMATION
SK
VB
AJK
CONSULTANT
TECHNIP
ENERGIES
Salcete,
Goa -
403722
~
~0--+-14:-:--.0:...::.3.:=.20=-=2-=-j2
:_:__IS::_:_S_:_:UE::.:::._O:_:__F_:_:OR~INF:__:O:_:__RM:_:__A:_:__TIO:-:--Nc___--I-_:S-K
---+--V---=B----i--A-JK--l--P-O-N-o
---+-c-c-T7:----21-AO-O-3S-S-, D'--A=TE::--D:--
---:2-=-7.-:-:10:-::.2,-:-02::-:-1-------1
Visit
us:
www.adage-automation.com
~
REV.
DATE
DESCRIPTION
PRPD
BY CHKD
BY
APPD
BY
PROJECT
TAIL
GAS AIR
DEMAND
ANALYSER
FOR
SRU
Control
No.
HJ21/6129
~
234
INTERMEDIATE JUNCTION
(BY
ADAGE)
BOX
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
TB1
1
112"NPT
1I2"NPT
=:
PDP-11
--------------------------
,
F~:1::
----------------~---l/
,
~
,
4
1
,,
3Cx2.5mm2,
,,,,
----------------~---j
Lj...J
,
BY ADAGE
,,
5
2
,,,,,,,
3
,,,
1
,
1
4
!
1"NPT
M25
J 6Cxl.5mm2
~'
_____________________
,
1I2"NPT
112"NPT
5
4.J
BY ADAGE
14
Il/
~rh
~
3Cx2.5mm2,
6
15
I:
BY ADAGE
Lfl
TBl
~
7
16
3Cx2,Smm2,
SPARE
Ir-h
rh
TO's
-
I
Lf-l"\
RY AI)M~F
/1fJ
17
'
\.
/
--_ ...._-- """"" __""_"_""""""""J
"
/
L__
10
----------
112"NPT
112"NPT
AIR
DEMAND
ANALYSER(900)
2 C
o
....o
Q)
II)o
Q)
~
...---------------------------
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
I PDP-31
I
....o
t.
0;)
:;:;
o
:':::o
]- D
Q)
o
<:
L,j
(.')
C§
~
L
_
L
_
NOTES:-
....o
.b'-
Q)
Q
2
Q
E
.~
1. INTERMEDIATE JUNCTION
BOX
a)
SUITABLE
FOR HAZARDOUS AREA CLASSIFICATION
ZONE1,
IIA/IIB,
T3, liP-56]
(TYPE EXD)
b)
MOC: DIE-CAST
ALUMINIUM
(LM6)
2.
CABLE ENTRIES :
a)
1"NPT =
1No.
b)
1/2"NPT
=
4Nos.
c)
3/4"
NPT =
1 No .
3. TERMINAL
BLOCK
GREY COLOUR, MAKE: PHONIEX/WAGO.
.._,
c
Q)
E
::J
IIo
\)
.~
~
8
9
A
B
C
D
E
5
7
8
9
6
09
SOLUTION
PARTNER
ANALYTICAL

.._,
C
III
E
:J
Uo
"tl
8
9
2
3
4
5
6
7
"-o
.._,
c
& A
coo
.._,
:Jo
:S';:
"tl
~
E
B
III
Q
.~
c.~
III.c
"tl
III
.So
.._,
coo
2
C
o
"-o
III
fJ)
I!J
III
.~
"-()
co
:;:;
o
.._,
'0
~ 0
III
oz
LJ
()
6~
"-o
.0
L
III
Q
2
Q
E
.~
110VAC
UPS
ISOLATION
SW~TCH
BOX
1«
rna
u ____
2
110VAC
UPS INCOMING
CABLE
: 2Cx50
MM2
(BY
CUSTOMER)
TB1
TERMINAL NO.
1-3
4-9
TB (SIZE)
50
2.5
WIRE SIZE (mm2)
50
2.5
CABLE SIZE (mm2)
2Cx50
3Cx2.5
CABLE ENTRY :
3/4"
NPT
: 01
No.
CABLE GLAND ENTRY
1.5" NPT
1/2" NPT
1/2"
NPT : 01
No.
NOTES:-
1.
CUSTOMER
TO
PROVIDE
INCOMING
POWER
CABLE
NEAR
THE ANALYZER
CABINET
,
FURTHER
CABLE
GLANDING
& TERMINATION
WILL
BE
DONE
BY ADAGE .
2.
ELECTRICAL
POWER
BOX
a)
SUITABLE
FOR
HAZARDOUS
AREA
CLASSIFICATION
ZONE 1,
b)
MOC:
DIE-CAST
ALUMINIUM
(LM6)
c)
COLOUR:
EPOXY
GREY
SHADE.
3. TERMINAL
BLOCK
GREY
COLOUR,
IIA/IIB,
T3,
IP-66
(TYPE
EXD)
o@-@
SPARE T8'8
G
ADA ANALYSER &
PROBE
750
WADS
~
Doc No.
PY-VA-4-M170-9634-03
~
DESCRIPTION
110VAC UPS ISOLATION SWITCH BOX DRAWING
~ Fr--,-----.---------------,----.---~----_.------~~~---- ------------------------~------ --~~~----------------------_1
F
rr
11.aIt
Q
~
()
(5
~
10
SOLUTION PARTNER ANALYTICAL
5
9
6
7
8
A
B
C
o
E

~
Doc No.
PY-VA-4-M170-9634-03
11
~
DESCRIPTION
415
VAC NON
UPS DRAWING
~
F~~------~----------------~----~----~--~~------~--------------------------~----------------------
~--------l_--------------------------------------------~
it
Qo
ct:
Q
~
(')
6"
....,
c
Q)
t
::Joo\)
.~
~
....,
c:
~
A
coo
....,
::Jo
:5.~
\)
Q)
....,
:'::
E
B
Q)
Q
.~
.S
~
Q)
.c
'o
Q)
.S
D
....,
coo
2 C
D
"-o
Q)
(/j
D
Q)
~
co
:;:;
~
.S?
~ D
Q)
o
<:
~.
(')
6"
"-o
.D
L
Q)
Q
2
Q
E
.~
2
3
7
8
9
5
6
4
.J
415VAC 30 PDP
PDP-31
415VAC 3 PHASE + NEUTRAL, 4 WIRE NON UPS POWER DISTRIBUTION
Exd,LM6, AREA CLASSIFICATION:
ZONE-1, IIAlIIB,T3
R-B
Y-B
B-B
N-B
USE AR
IISI tAR.
US AR
US
AR
1-3C r
1-2C
l-1C
~(
0
CD
CD
r<)
I
1-4C
__j
>-
CD
CD
CD
CD
CD
CD
<,
CD
CD
i!l
CD
~
CD
CD
CD
CD
0
N
'"
co
en
0
N
'"
'"
co
t-:
co
en
,-
,-
o
MCB-4
,-
,-
T1
N
N
N
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
-
-
-
-
- -
- - - -
}--)
4A
}_3MCB-5
- -
"
I
- -
}-)-}-j
MCB-2
)--}-;--)
MCB-3
>-:-) MCB-6 8~
)---)
MCB-7
L
)--j-;-j
MCB-1
16A
16A
o
4A
4A
1
6A
63A
CD
CD
Iz
<,~
N
I
0:::
-c
-c
Cl
:0
s
-c
05
~
;:§
;<
~ ~
~
;:\ <PC
;:§
;<
~
'"
,-
14 75 PE
eo
,-
,- r
.!.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
- -
- - -
- -
- -
1
2
3
6
7
8@
10
11 1
1
1
19
@
©O
@
EGEND:
L 1-
INDICATING
LAMP
RED
PHASE
ON.
(RED)
L2-
INDICATING
LAMP
YELLOW
PHASE
ON.
(YELLOW)
L3-
INDICATING
LAMP
BLUE
PHASE
ON.
(BLUE)
Xl -
X4-
O.SA
FUSE
TB1
SPARE
R1-1
Rl-2
0"D~"IT
~
I"
I
~
I"
~
-
I
,
,
'"
-
1
1
?
§
N
~
....._
'"
(!J
N
0')
.......
2f- J
~~
I
.J
TB
~ 3
4~
t'I'tLit
I
-
-
w
TUBE LIGHT
TIMER
I
I
I
f-I
36W
TO AC-1
TO AC-2
D
INCOMMING
415VAC
,
.
•
1
12
1 3
1
4
1~-1
PANEL AC-1
PDP
PDP-32(1.75KW)
,
.
.
.
1
1 2
1
3 1
4
TA-l
PANEL AC-2
PDP
PDP-33( 1.75KW)
NOTES:-
1. INCOMING POWER CABLE SUPPLY. CUSTOMER TO PROVIDE POWER CABLE NEAR THE
ANALYZER CABINET AT PDP-31,
FURTHER CABLE GLANDING & TERMINATION WILL BE
DONE BY ADAGE.
CUSTOMER TO PROVIDE POWER CABLE AND CABLE GLAND FOR INCOMING POWER CABLE.
2. ELECTRICAL POWER DISTRIBUTION BOX :
0) SUITABLE FOR HAZARDOUS AREA CLASSIFICATION ZONE1,
IIA/IIB,
13,
(TYPE EXD)
b) MOC: DIE-CAST ALUMINIUM (LM6)
c) COLOUR: EPOXY GREY
SHADE.
3. SPARE CABLE ENTRIES DULY PLUGGED WITH CERTIFIED PLUG
4.
CABLE ENTRIES ON PDP-31
:
0) 3/4"NPT
=
1No. , b)
1/2"NPT
= 9Nos.,
5. TERMINAL BLOCK GREY COLOUR, MAKE: PHONIEX/WAGO.
6. EARTHING TERMINAL YELLOW/GREEN COLOUR.
IJB
Interconnecting
cable
...--
-___,_-
by Adage
AIR
DEMAND
ANALYSER
(900ADA)
HEATTRACER HEATTRACER
(SAMPLE LINE) (VENT LINE)
(50OW)
(500W)
TB-1
TB-2
lERMINAL
NO.
1~
6-9
11l-13
14-15
16-17
16-19
20-21
22-30
1·2
3-4
m(slZE)
50
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
2.5
2.5
WIRE SIZE (mm')
50
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
CABLE SIZE (rnrn')
3.5Cx50
4Cx2.5
4Cx2.5
3Cx2.5
3Cx2.5
3Cx2.5
2Cxl.5
2Cxl.5
CABLE GLAND (MElRIC)
1.5"NPT
112"NPT
112"NPT
112"NPT
112"NPT
112" NPT
.
112"NPT
112"NPT
SOLUTION
PARTNER ANALYTICAL
CLIENT
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LlMITED,HYDERABAD
END USER
IOCL PARADIP (ORISSA)
SK
VB
AJK
CONSULTANT
TECHNIP ENERGIES
SK
VB
AJK
PO No
T721A00355,
DATED:-
27.10.2021
PRPD BY CHKD BY
APPD BY
PROJECT
TAIL GAS AIR DEMAND ANALYSER FOR SRU
2
3
4
S·",P:·,.·'.'."
"
.
..
;
,
ADAGE
AUTOMATION
PVT.
LTD.
L-26B,
PHASE
II,
Verna
industrial
area,
So leete,
Goa
-
403722
Visit
us:
www.adage-automation.eom
18.04.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
o
14.03.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
Control
No.
HJ21/6129
REV.
DATE
DESCRIPTION
6
789
5
A
B
C
E
F

L..i
(')
C§
"(
"-0
...,
c:
Ql
(J)
c:
0
(J
c:
2
=c
:s:
...,
::J
0
-C:...,.~
lJ
2
...,
E
Ql
Q
.'2
.S
Qll.
Ql
0
-C:
'o
Qlc
2
c:0
(J
E-o
"-0
Ql
(J)
0
_Ql
IIIi,
"-0
c
~
~
-2
Q
)(
ill
0
<:
lti
(')
C§
"(
"-0
.0
l.
ill
Qe
Q
.'2
...,
c
Ql
E
::J
(J
0
'o
.Ci!
~
C
RIIN/ATIFNTION
Jl0l-ll
SIGNAL
~
Jl01-12
FAULT SIGNAL
,1101-14
1-
Jl01-15
AIR DEMAND ANALYSER (900)
Jl00-0l
4-20mA
(AIR DEMAND)
~
Jl00-02
Jl00-03
4-20mA
(H2S)
~
Jl00-04
B
Jl00-05
4-20mA
(S02)
~
lJS
Jl00-06
4
20mA
SIGNAL
Jl00-07
4-20mA
4Pxl.5mm2,
BY ADAGE, (Cl)
(SPARE)
~
Jl00-08
A
NOTES:-
1.
FIELD SIGNAL CABLE (DETAILS AS INDICATED IN DRAWING) SUPPLY
&
LAYING/TERMINATION
UP TO
SJB
BY CUSTOMER.
2.
SIGNAL JUNCTION
BOX
a)
SUITABLE
FOR HAZARDOUS AREA CLASSIFICATION ZONE
1,
IIA/IIB,
13,
IP-66
(TYPE EXD)
b)
MOC: DIE-CAST
ALUMINIUM
(LM6)
c)
COLOUR:
EPOXY GREY SHADE.
2
RS485
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
c
D
E
D
E
Jl0l-04
COMMU. SIGNAL ~
J 101-05
f--------'
S485
Jl0l-06
OMMU. SIGNAL L
Jl 01-07
f--------'I
SIGNAL JUNCTION
BOX (SJB)
(AT FIELD
CABINET)
ZONE
1, lIAllIB
T3
f
r-------------------------------------------------------~~-1--------------------------------------1
I,:
4-20mA
,-
1
~
i
-2
1"NPT
.1
I
IT1
ANALOG OUTPUT CABLE & GLAND
I
AIR DEMAND:+5%
TO-5~I
_j
r
(1 Pxl.5mm2)
BY CUSTOMER
I
~
lc2~
j
,,4-20mA
I
.) If--
_
____,_,o--_++t-m
__
--I_ANALOG
OUTPUT CABLE &
GLAND
3/4"NP~
H2S:
0-3
MOL% 1_7
_j
T
(IPxl.5mm2)
BY CUSTOMER
\
:n
4-20mA
15 ~
1!"NPT
ANALOG OUTPUT CABLE & GLAND
~¥-- =-~c__-------46---IH~S~0l?2~:
n:0=11IMiMOlTL%%--jL6~
r
(IPxl.5mm2)
BY CUSTOMER
it: 4-20mA
17
II
! ~"NPT
It 5::::5
OUTPUT
~~
..
ItT
RS485 OUTPUT USLE
& G~ND
l_
r--2
_jf---+H-+-+.:---+++-T'----I-
(1 PxO.22mm2,)
BY CUSTOMER
r--
3
1 "NPT\
/5 RS485
& DIGITAL SIGNAL
6Pxl.5mm2,
BY ADAGE, (C2)
r--
4
~
!,I ?
!"NPT
RIIN/ATIENTION I
1 II
J.I
RUN/ATTENTION
SIGNAL
SIGNAL
l_ 2~r---~-+---+1H-!i'/
-!"N-P-T-_-
(1 Px 1.5mm2,)
CABLE & GLAND BY CUSTOMER
L___cF"=-"IIO':'UL=,:.,T_-i1 .) II
!
I-AULI
ALA~M SIGNAL
SIGNAL
l_ 4 _j
,
(IPxl.5mm2,)
_5
CABLE & GLAND BY CUSTOMER
r-
ISPARE TB',
_
,~
II
i
j
j
L________________________________________
:
"------------------------------------------
i
I
i
L
J
3.
SPARE CABLE ENTRIES DULY PLUGGED WITH CERTIFIED PLUG.
4.
CABLE
ENTRIES :
a)
3/4"NPT
= 2Nos.
b)
1/2"NPT
=
9Nos.
c)
1"
NPT
=
1Nos.
5. TERMINAL BLOCK
(2.5MM2)
GREY COLOUR, MAKE: PHONIEX/WAGO.
LEGEND:
ADAGE
~
PURCHASER
ADAGE
AUTOMATION
PVT.
LTD.
L-26B,
PHASE
II,
Verno
induetricl
orec,
Solcete,
Goa
-
40.:5722
Visit
us:
www.adage-automation.com
REV.
DATE
DESCRIPTION
TAIL GAS AIR DEMAND ANALYSER FOR SRU
Control
No.
HJ21/6129
SK
VB
AJK
PO No
T721A00355,
DATED:- 27.10.2021
2
PRPD BY CHKD BY APPD BY
PROJECT
3
4
~
Doc No.
PY-VA-4-MI70-9634-03
;:!:
F
DESCRIPTION
SIGNAL JUNCTION BOX DRAWING
~
r--.---,----------------,----,----,-----,----- == ._--------------------------4_------ ------------------------_4
F
0::
CLIENT
BHARAT HEAVY ELECTRICALS LlMITED,HYDERABAD
Q()
FN[) IISFR
10(;1
PARAfllP (ORISSA)
(t
Q
1
18.04.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
SK
VB
--.x:Jr
CONSULTANT- TECHNIP ENERGIES
o
14.03.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
5
6
7
8
12
!
SOLUTION
PARTNER ANALYTICAL
9

1
I
2
I
3
I
4
I
5
I
6
I
7
I
8
I
9
~ . k: '
ANALYSER DATASHEET
~.
" /'~\.' "";t:",
f'
A
AIR DEMAND
ANAYSER
A
Sr. No.
Group
Description
Details
1.1
SERVICE
SRU Tail Gas Air to TGTU
r---
1,2
LINE NUMBER
ISERVICE
10
36" -2902-A 12A oCT
-
r---
I--
1,3
Analytical
System
TAG NO
088-A T-01 01
oiCl r---
co
"0
1.4
MAKE
AMETEK
«
.... '---
0
e
1.5
MODEL
900CE
0
'iii
B
II>
B
'§
H2S
0-3 MOL%
<II0.
e
2,1
Measuring
Ranges
S02
0-1 MOL%
<II:::
'c
3:
AIR DEMAND
-5 To +5
<II
-5
-
...
3.1
REPEATABILITY
Better than 0,5% full scale
I--
"
0
-5 r---
.~
3,2
RESPONSE
TIME
Typically
less than 305 to T90
II> -
Performance
<II
'E
3.3
ACCURACY
Better than 1% full scale
co0. -
'E!
3.4
LINEARITY
Better than 1% full scale
C
;S
B
4.1
POWER
SUPPLY
110 VAC ±10%.
50 Hz,
UPS supply.
600 Watts
"0 -
Utility
$
4,2
INSTRUMENT
AIR
Minimum
413.6KPa
(60 psig),
120 Umin
(4,24 CFM)
:0
:E
5.1
Area Classification
ZONE-1,
ATEX II 2G Exd e px liB, T3, Gb
'16
(5 r---
Protection
I"~"III
~?
1""'11
;,"·:··II:i'il";'I"P""
nFGRFF
nF
PRnTFnilnN
ATFl! And PFSn
-
<II
I--
"
b.']
LJUIVIIVIUI'JILJAIIUN
IU UL:S
K·:!>·Ij&tlIVIUUI:lUo.
X '1 1~l'llVVlfea!1I
o.Ji:l)
11"::1
"0
'---
. i'
b.~
ANALUG
UUlfJUIS
411lIMI5aUIl
4-~UI'\'IA BU!~U!,
0.e -
C5
Analogue
O/P
1: 4-20mA
configured
to SJB for H2S (0-3%)
"0
Analogue
O/P
2: 4-20mA
configured
to SJB for S02
(0-1%)
<II
6.3
ANALOGUE
CONFIGURAilON
'0.
Outputs
Analogue
OIP
3: 4-20mA
configured
to SJB for AlE DEMAND
(-5 TO +5)
D
0
D
o
Analogue
O/P
2,3:
Spare
(Wired to ASJB)
<II.a r---
B
Analyser
Fault Alarm
'0
6.4
DIGITAL OUTPUTS,
c
Analyser
Run/Attention
"0c
co
<II
7.1
Temperature
5 to 50'C (41 to 122'F)
-
Cl
-
ra
"0 -
Sample
Conditions
«
'0
7.2
Flow Rate
3 to 5 L'rnln (0,1 to 0,2 CFM)
~
CIJ0.
8.1
Ambient
Temperature
5 to 50'C
(41 to 122'F)
e0. r---
Installation
CIJ
conditions
E
-5
8.2
INSTALLA ilON
LOCA TlON
Inside Airconditioned
SS Analyser
Cabinet
in field.
E
.!!!...c
CIJ
E
Field Calibration
with Gas cylinders
fitted with cylinder
pressure
regulators
V)
"
9,1
Validation
CALIBRATlON
I VALIDAilON
u
-,
0
"0
I~"
II>
:E
9,2
Display
DISPLA Y & USER
INTERFACE
2 Line Display
with Keypad
-
l-
I--
9.3
CABLE
ENTRY
M25 for Analyser
Power,M25
for Analog
signal
& M25 for Discrete
Signal
-
Entry
3/8" 00
Tube connection
for Heated
SampleiVent
Line
9.4
TUBE
ENTRY
1/4" 00
Tube connection
for Instrument
Air Line
Doc
No.
I PY-VA-4-M
170-9634-03
I Sheet
I
13
F
DESCRIPTION
I ANALYSER
DATA SHEET
F
CLIENT
BHARAT
HEAVY ElECTRICAlS
LlMITED,HYDERABAD
ADAGE
AUTOMATION
PVT.
LTD.
,
END USER
ioct
PARADIP
(ORISSA)
L-26B,
PHASF
II,
VPorno
indus+rio:
»:
I
r\·#~
or en.
..:!;"",
§""o%~
~\)"
l
~
@+~
Yf<ff~
ISSUED FOR
INrOkMAllON
AJK
Sa leete,
Goa
40j/22
~":3 ,:;;;;,9
I
18.04.2022
SK
Vel
CONSULTANT
TECHNIP
ENERGIES
-
./
".~~.1
~Q
fL~,,7,="
0
14.03.2022
ISSUED FOR INFORMATION
SK
VB
AJK
PO No
T721A00355,
DATED:-
27.10.2021
Visit
us:
www.adage-automation.com
SOLUTION
PARTNER ANALYTICAL
REV.
DATE
DESCRIPTION
PRPD
BY CHKD
BY
APPD
BY
PROJECT
TAil
GAS AIR
DEMAND ANALYSER
FOR SRU
Control
No.
HJ21/6129
1
I
2
I
3
I
4
I
5
I
6
I
7
I
8
I
9
~
:Jo
:S.~
'o
QJ~
:':::
E
QJ
Q
.~
C.~
QJ.c
'o
QJ
.S
.Eco
IJ
E-o
~
C
QJ
E
:J
IJo
'o
.~
~
c
"-o
..
o
eo
:,::;
o
:':::o
]-
QJ
o
2::
LJ
(j
i§
«
"-o
.0
L
QJ
Q
~
Q
.~

o
~
-
lAG TIME CALCULATIONS FOR TAG NO: 088-AT-0101
~
for Air Demand Analyser System
il
V
/
~. ,}/
ii-·c
LAG TIME=VOLUME
IFLOWRATE
Total Volume Sample Tube
I
V
=
IIr2L
I
(i.e. Area(A=IIr2)
X Length)
Where,
II
=
3.14
Radius of Sample Tube
r
=
4.050
mm
Area of Cross Section
A
-
3.14
x
4.050
x
4.050
-
A
=
51.50385
rnm"
Area of Cross Section
A
-
0.515
ern"
-
Length of Sample Tube
L
=
500
em
V
-
0.515
x
500
cm3
Total Volume
Sample Tube
V
=
257.52
cm3
V
-
0.26
Ltrs
-
Volume
of the SHS Components
V
=
0.200
Ltrs
V
=
0.4575
Ltrs
Time = Volume I Fast loop Flow rate
=
0.46
I
5.00
Ltrs/LPM
=
0.09150385
Min.
Time
= Volume I Flow
=
5
Sec.
TOTAL lAG TIME
=
5
Sec.
Client
: Mis. Bharat Heavy Electricals
Ltd. Hyderabad
End User
: M/s.IOCL
Paradip
SYSTEM
: Air Demand Analyser
System-SRU
PO
: T721A00355
dtd:27.1 0.2021
1
18.03.2022
VB
VB
AJK
DOC. NO. PY-VA-4-M 170-9643-03
0
14.03.2022
VB
VB
AJK
DETAIL
: Lag Time Calculation
REV
DATE
PREPARED
BY
CHECKED
BY
APPROVED
BY
CONTROL
NO.: HJ21/6129
I
SHEET
14

L()
...-
ow>o
0::
0...
0...«
o
Z
I-
W
WI
(/)t---+--t--t----i
co
Q)
-0
:s:o
E
CIl
coen
O'l,.--._
C C
E
0-
:::J
Q)
CIl
CIl
CIl
co
~en
owS
ws
W
0::
Zo
~
...J
::lo
...J«o
zO:::
O~
t:~
:2:«
::lZ
tJ)«
Zo
00
(.)~
tJ)C
~«
Zo
~
0:::
aJ
...J«o
co
"C
Q)
I/)
CO
.0
"-
CO
Q)
~
co>
co>
ow
0::«
0...
W
0::
0...
x
co
::2:
CIl
Q)
+-'
:::J
C
::2:
l()
o
l()
N
co>
co>
l()
'"Eo--en
~
o
(Y)..-
T""
I+-o
"Co
.i:
Q)
C.
CIl
Q)'-
+-'
:..:::::i
o..-
CIl
__0
Z
CIl'-
+-'
....J
oo
l()
N
CD..-
CIlo
Z
N
.....
::2:
0...
_J
l()
>< 0
+-'
....J
l()
l()
N
-
o
10
o
<0
l()
N
CD..-
Na.
N>
N
a..
II
o
.....>
"-
.E-c.~
o
E
:::I
I/)
.!!!
"-
Q)
"C
C
~o
Q)co
I/)co .c
';i -
CO
C
:::I
0
o E
CO
~
o
Q)
~
~
o "-
.0
Q)
CO
~
C
CO
o co
"C
';i
Q)
CO
I/)
"-
CO
.0
.0
.-
Q)
CO
o
0
C
Q)
Q)
C
::c
0
.....a.
T"">
zo
~
::'2:
0:::o
LL
Z
0:::o
LLo
W
::J
(f)
(f)
zo
~
::'2:
0:::o
LL
Z
0:::o
LLo
W
::J
(f)
(f)
T""a,
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
zo
i=
0...
r:ro
Cf)wo
-
N>
,__
Q.)
"'0
C
'-
.2
E
Q)
~
Cf)
~
+-'
....J
C
Co
~
~
.0
coo
Q)co
'-
.2
CIl
coen
>.
U
Eo
,__
'+-
N
Eo-
01
~o
C'?
...-
+-'
Cil
Q.)
.0
Cil
:ro
>
co
C/)
Cil
01
'+-o
Q.)
E
:::lo>
'-
Q)
-0
C
>.o
N
Eo--en
~
coo
+-'co
CIl
coen
4-o
Q)
::0
co
'ro>
co
Q)
E
:::J
(5
>
co
+-'o
+-'
Q)oc
Q)I
'"Eo--en
~
coo
,.--._
CIl
.!:
.!:
+-'
+-'
C
C
0
o E
EN
'- ..-
Q)
----
0.'-
CO
§ ~
~~
~
'-
..0.2
co c
(.)
0
~
..-
CO
g>,e
';:: co
Q)
(.)
:"524-
CIl
0
Co 0
UZ
co
~
CO'-
..0
'-
.8
CO
:::Jen
Q)'-
-
s:::
Q)
E
Q),.--._
.:
x
::I
CO
C"E
Q)
----
0:::::2:
1-0...
Q)....J
CIl c
>0 ,_
iii :s:
s::: 0
«u::::
coo
4-o
co
~0.
E
:::J
CIlCoU
Q)oC
IDI
N
No
N
(Y)o
"¢..-
N
No
N
-e-o
co
..-
Eo
..;:
Q)'-
:::J
CIl
3:
CIl
o ~
u.o...
CU~
-
+-'
o
:::J
c.!:.0
4-o
'-
Q)
..0
E
:::J
C
Q)
::0
'in
CIlo
0...
w
~o
~'u
CO0.
COo
Q)
EFco
~
CO'-
.0
coU
<
'-
Q)
-0
C
>.
U
'-
Q)
-0C
>.
U
>
W
0::
o
L-
~
----------------------.----------------------------1g
..:___

PO No.
: T721A00356
dt: 27.10.2021
. r)AG-
MANDATARY SPARES FOR ADA900
ANALYSER
r-,,'" .....-~.-""'"
'=-.
Document
No.: MS-01/6130,
Rev :1 DT: 18.04.2022
S.No. as per
Part Description
as per Contract
Quantity
required
as
..
.
Qty. of spare items
Remarks
Make/ Model
Ref Dwg.
Customer
spec
C
Descnption
of Spare Item offered
offered (No's)
!Doc. No:
per
ontract
3
As Per Mandatary Spares clause no 3: General philosophy for each type of Analysers shall be :10% or minimum of one of each type
Electronics
1 no.
Micro Interface Board
1 no.
Ametek,28620178
Display units
1 no.
Display unit
1 no.
Ametek,28620270
Power supplies
1 no.
24V DCPower Supply
1 no.
Ametek,28620289
Fuses
1 no.
FUSE125mA, 0.2A,32mA
1 set
Ametek,28620295
Sensors,
1 no.
Photomultiplier
Tube lG PMT low Gain <1500alm
Ametek,28620290
Detectors
1 no.
Sensing elements,
1 no.
RTDPTlOO 9XX8-32 THREAD
1 no.
Ametek,28620094
Repair kit
1 no.
ASRProbe Repair Kit
1 no.
Ametek,28620095
3.5
Specific Spares Philosphy Prived for analyzer (As per clause no 3.5 of Mandatary Spares List)
Magnesium lamp
2 nos
Ametek,28620092
Cadmium lamp
2 nos
Cadmium lamp
2 nos
Ametek,28620091
Cell window
2 nos
Cell window
2 nos
Ametek,28620093
Window gasket
10 nos.
Window gasket (0 RING)
10 nos.
Ametek,28620081
Air regulator
1 no.
Air regulator
1 no.
Ametek,28620285
Kil o rine
2 nos
Klt-o-ring
2 nos
Ametek,l!lb2UB
I
---
Fuses
5 set
Set of Fuses(~/\, (>3 m/\,1.&/\,2/\)
5 set
Amclci<,286202'J4
Relay
1 no.
Relay
1 no.
Ametek,28620286
nirlll!V
nrnrri
;L rlU,
n\Jv iii DiLIlI,,,,,I/G 1illlJ'lmivlI
Luu.
1~'lIIulultllln('iilOlln,
Processor Board
2 nos
Processor Board
2 nos
Ametek,28620215
ather cards
2 nos
Controller Board
2 nos
Ametek,28620288
3.9
Spares for Sample Handling System as per Clause no 3.9
Flow switch
1 no.
Flowmeter Gas 2- 18 Scfh SsWith Needle Valve & Viton
a-Rings
1 no.
Ametek,28620291
Vaporization system if required, which includes
vaporizer, thermostat,
electrical tracing cable and
heater etc.
Cooling system if required, which includes one
cooler, flow
conditioning
system etc
Probe Tube
ASRProbe 900
Ametek,28620292
1 no.
3" 300ltRF r probe length 550mm
1 no.
Probe heater & Temp. sensors
Y strainer
Ball Valve
Needle Valve
Gate valve
Sample/ Air Filter
Air Filter Regulator, 1/4"
5havo,18728019
Pressure Regulator
1 no.
Valve Solenoid Modell 6011-2/2WAY
Ametek,28620293
120V/60HZ/4W
NC
1 no.
2, 3 way air operated valve
1 no.
Valve Solenoid Model 331-3/2WAY
Ametp.k,2R620?6R
120V/60HZ/'JW
L/W
1 no.

02
14.05.22 REVISED AS PER COMMENTS
02
06
Rathinakanna
n Chinnasamy
2022.05.24
22:58:16
+05'30'
03
31.05.22
03
09
24.06.22
04
04
05
06.07.22
05
Rathinakannan
Chinnasamy
2022.07.10
23:34:26 +05'30'