Quotation Number: Q2603N020R1
BOQ Status: FOUND

DESCRIPTION
QTY
UNIT PRICE
(INR)
TOTAL PRICE
(INR)
1
GAS ANALYSER SYSTEM FOR MEASUREMENT OF H2S FOR PROCESS
GAS HEATER PROJECT
Make: AIROPTIC
Model: GAS EYE
Operating Principle: TDLAS
Component To Be Measured: H2S
Measuring Range: H2S: 0-50 PPM
Mounting Location: Extractive Type
With Sample Handling System Consisting Of:
• With heated flow through cell for mounting of laser analyzer
• With aspirator pump system for extraction and drawing of sample
gas .
• Mounting of analyser on field rack
Analyser Output:
• 4-20 mA
• Digital Output
(For More Details, Please Refer The Bill Of Material Section)
1 SET
59,67,000
59,67,000
2
Sample Gas Transportation Tube
Size:1/2”, MOC: PTFE
@4,000 Per Meter
3
Recommended Spares for 2 years
SOV -1 No.
Filter-1 No.
1 Set
80,000
80,000
4
Supervision of Installation & Commissioning Charges
(Boarding – Lodging – Local Conveyance, To And FRO Air Ticket/ Ac II
Train Fare To Be Arranged By Customer)
@ 30,000 Per Man Day
NOTES:
1. The quoted analyser system shall be mounted on a free-standing rack and not a panel/cabinet.
2. HART output is not available. 4..20 mA analog output shall be available in the analyser system.
3. The components shall be as per adage vendor list .
4. The output shall be available in the analyser system. Further transmission/connectivity along with the
cables/hardware etc to the DCS /control room etc shall be in customer’ scope.
5. We shall provide one set of calibration cylinder i.e. one H2S gas cylinder. Refilling shall be in customer’s
scope.
6. Commissioning spares shall be hand carried by the service engineer at the time of commissioning and is
irrespective of any list. Please provide philosophy for mandatory spares or two years operational and
maintenance spares if required
7. Sample gas pump is not applicable for the quoted system.
8. The output signals, alarms signals shall be available in the analyser system. Further
transmission/connectivity along with the cables/hardware etc to the dcs /control room etc shall be in
customer’ scope.
9. The quoted analyser system shall be mounted on free standing rack. Hence Panel AC is not applicable.
The customer to keep the Rack in the temperature-controlled room.
10. MOC of the nameplates shall be traffolyte.
11. We understand that the process is dust free, the system has been designed accordingly
